mr president, the promotion of a real functioning single market is one of the priorities of the european union and also one of the areas on which most of us would easily be in agreement. that is why we should promote competition and remove distortions and barriers. if we do so, this will be to the benefit of our economies and our people. let me mention three areas in which we should make progress: the energy sector, which is suffering a market fragmentation, distortion and different levels of national support; the telecoms market, where we should maintain competition and allow the development of a vibrant digital economy; and transport – better road transport will mean huge benefits for people, as we can see, for example, in my country. on the other hand, let me ask that one be cautious about using the term ‘social dumping’. the fact that that someone is getting lower wages is disturbing, but this does not necessarily mean there is any social dumping, because of the different cost structure and wages in the economy. i would also like to highlight the area of taxation, where the commission and parliament have made substantial progress. we are missing only one thing – namely bold action taken by the council. lastly, let me thank the commissioner and the commission for their very robust actions and very courageous approach. at the same time, let me say that we are not calling for more sanctions, but for better rules and for respect for the rules.
mr president, the purpose of european competition rules is to ensure a level playing field and fairness for all businesses, regardless of their size or the marketing capacity with which they can reach consumers. therefore, even from a fair market perspective, possible differences in seemingly identical products raise a number of questions. the question is whether consumer expectations are met in the case of so-called dual quality and how consumers' choices are determined by the brand under which a different product is sold. i trust that the european parliament will repeatedly support the provision calling on the commission to investigate possible differences in the composition of branded products and to assess whether they have negative consequences for the functioning of the internal market and also for the competitiveness of its actors, in particular smes. i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for supporting this amendment of mine. i hope that the commission will finally take this matter seriously.
madam president, i too very much appreciate the united line that has emerged from the discussions here. i am a little bit disappointed in the council in its position, because i think it is disrespectful to the european parliament not to be here on such an important issue. however, i think the fundamental error occurred when the unrealistic tests from the laboratory conditions were applied to the operation or were to be applied to the operation. i think that was a fundamental failure. i, on the other hand, appreciate the commission's approach, which has been expressed here today. i think that the approval of the objection, which we should approve according to the proposals of the petitioners, would have the opposite effect than they want. that means i object to the objection that has been raised here. i, of course, value quality in health, consumer protection, environmental protection, but this cannot be done in the interests of sustainable development.
in writing. the commission's proposal to increase the nox emission limits is an unprecedented step backwards in the field of health and environmental protection. for the first time in history, the proposal would increase nox emissions from diesel engines by 110% compared to the original plan. at a time when the world is buzzing with the dieselgate scandal and the paris agreement, such a proposal seems like a bad joke. moreover, a general derogation from the applicable emission limits is incompatible with the objective and content of regulation (ec) no 715/2007 and exceeds the implementing powers provided for therein. it is typical for this commission that the decision was approved by the member states' representatives in the technical committee for motor vehicles instead of the ordinary legislative process. producers always claim that they need a long-term perspective and stable conditions. in this case, they had nine years to adapt to the new requirements, and some manufacturers are meeting the limits set. that's why i say that you can't change the law to punish the honest for the dishonest. we are now hearing that if we do not accept this commission proposal, the next one will be even weaker, that it is better to have this proposal than no proposal because it would have an even greater impact on the environment. it's a blackmail, if you ask me. once set, the objectives must be respected, implemented and enforced. parliament has no choice but to veto the entire bill.
i would like to stress, madam president, that the european parliament's report on intercultural dialogue is not only important for its timeliness, but also because of the threat of radicalism and conflict. so it cannot be just a response to this momentary threat, but it must be systematic work, which is the best prevention against national conflicts and intolerance and against the rise of violence. european values are not artificial. these are inherently common human values, and it is therefore important that we, the citizens of the european union, understand and share them. the european union is growing from the roots of judaism, christianity and antiquity, but it is made up of very different peoples and cultures, it is affected by globalisation, by migration, and therefore it is necessary to work on better understanding and sharing of these values. the report contains many important findings and suggestions, which is why i decided to support it, as it stresses the need for ethical education and values, citizenship education, knowledge of foreign languages, which is essential for joint activities and dialogue and must be promoted. education must be guided not only by rights but also by responsibilities. i think that the solidarity shown today by hundreds of volunteers is proof that european human values in general are alive and worth promoting.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i am pleased with the outcome of this report. it comes at a key moment where we move from a regulation designed primarily to repair the legislative holes which were so evident in the crisis, towards the capital markets union, which aims to encourage more investment and growth in europe. the key aspect of the stocktaking report is the call for the commission to undertake cumulative impact assessments and, at regular intervals, of all of the new legislation enacted in the aftermath of the crisis. i fully support this call. in my view it is imperative that the impact assessment looks at how different pieces of european legislation in the area of financial services interact with each other. are there any gaps or loopholes? are there any unintended consequences? how has europe’s competitiveness been affected globally? we must gain a full understanding of the new legislation, at which point we can focus on building a robust and competitive capital markets union. there are a number of points which i have pushed during the negotiation. firstly, in order to ensure europe’s competitiveness on a global level, we must have a coherent framework in place with regard to dealing with third countries, for example in ucits. secondly, access to finance for smes is key in order to bring europe back to sustained growth. we must ensure that the regulation in place does not hinder this process, and must reduce as much as possible any barriers for smes’ financing which are due to excessive regulation.
mr president, i would like to give my full support to this report, which has been presented to us, because after a thorough study i believe that it really reflects the real situation in which european financial services find themselves. i think it also reflects how different the situation is in the european union and the united states. we really need to ensure access to finance, to investment, to innovation for our industry, for our services, for our financial sector. it is of course essential that the policy we wish to implement is not just a tool, but also contains the target effects, that is, where we really want to go in deregulating the markets. i quite disagree with the idea that one of my colleagues on the left of the spectrum has expressed here, who is not in favor of deregulating markets and at the same time misses the fact that a decentralized banking system has not been achieved. i think it goes hand in hand.
in writing. today we were discussing the obstacles to women entrepreneurs. it's an interesting topic, but i don't think it's the key. the situation of women, who are most at risk of poverty, have more problems in the labour market than men and the problem of how to combine personal, family and professional life are certainly more pressing problems that women 'burn' much more than the question of their entrepreneurial potential. i am skeptical about the content of this report from the outset, as i do not think it offers any solution to the problems raised. i don't even think that the solution to empowering women should be to increase their involvement in private enterprise. i don't think this is the answer.
in writing.– i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr plura, for his excellent report. the report focuses on key issues that seek to improve skills policies in europe with a view to fighting youth unemployment. youth are affected by unemployment more than any other age group – approximately 7.5 million young europeans are currently neither in employment nor in training. to reduce youth unemployment, several actions should be taken. first, we need to build stronger partnerships between authorities, educational institutions and businesses to better forecast future skills needs. second, a new impetus should be given to stem skills and vocational education. best practices should be exchanged between member states. third, young people’s employability can be further improved by adopting new teaching and training methods. schools should put more focus on soft skills to prepare youngsters for real ‘work-life’. also, entrepreneurship education should be fostered from an early age. last but not least, it should be the young people themselves who take their future in their hands. the biggest skill that a young man or a woman can have is the sense of initiative and self-responsibility. only like this can we really strive for the dreams we all have!
mr president, when the czech republic joined the european union, many of my fellow citizens believed that membership in the european union would reduce corruption, that it would consolidate democracy in our country, that it would bring prosperity. now everyone must see that this false dream is totally falling apart. everyone in the czech republic sees that european funds have only increased corruption. the vote against the czech republic on the issue of migration quotas has exposed the true undemocratic nature of the european union and has shown the european commission's complete disconnect from what ordinary people in the czech republic think. plus, now we see that the quota decision doesn't work either. the european parliament was completely left out of the urgency, and yet the european commission was unable to do anything, and that is only good. most of the people in britain seem to want to be heard now, and i'm not surprised.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, just as the industrial revolution once made us leaders in the world, i think the digital single market can help create more growth and jobs in europe. this digital revolution is in fact the new industrial revolution and, just as we feared the unknown then, we see fear now in the voices of digital protectionism and the conflicts between traditional industries and new innovative business models, and between those who can adapt and those who worry they might be left behind. but today, if we want to continue our standard of living, we must, as a society, embrace the digital revolution that is happening all around us. we must take steps to create a true digital single market. we must support a policy where innovation, new business models, new products and new supply chains are welcomed. we need a policy that acknowledges that platforms and shared economy are not fringe parts of our economy, but the future engine of it. we must accept that the analogue days of protected state-owned industries and over—regulated business and consumers markets are over. commissioner, in your digital single market strategy you have set out sixteen ways to help europe succeed in this digital revolution. i can confirm that you have the full support of the alde group to get this done. we must fully implement the whole strategy, because otherwise europe will fall behind. whether we succeed or fail relies solely on us, and we can act now. i have no doubt that our vote tomorrow will confirm the political mandate for the commission to use all its power in this field. commissioner, please use your political capital, because we are already late.
mr president, as has been said, the internet has become the most widely used means of communication. however, the expansion of digital services often faces numerous constraints that impede development. although our left-wing group, the confederation of the european united left and the nordic green left, supports the digital single market strategy in general, it also points to some problems that it will demand to be eliminated or mitigated. the protection of personal data of consumers entering the digital market or citizens communicating with public administrations through so-called egovernment is a sensitive issue. the issue of digital market workers working from home without social and legal protection, or the fact that strengthening the digital market will objectively mean more substitution of human labour, work by technology, must not be ignored. in other words, the digital single market must also have a social dimension.
mr president, as we have said today, the digital market in its various forms is strongly influencing economic growth in the global economy. it's one of the main attributes of economic development today. therefore, it is important to act at european level to help the digital single market as much as possible. i would like to acknowledge the great effort that all the committees have made in this area. i think we have managed to highlight the most important areas needed for the further development of the digital market. the question remains how to harmonise prices and charges at union level, especially in the area of taxation, which can be a considerable problem in some areas. we should certainly guard against attempts to over-regulate. on the contrary, we should be helping to increase coverage and, above all, to promote the speed and security of the digital market itself. it clearly shows the tremendous power of the private sector, which has been pushing this area forward all along. rather, we should relax some of the constraints that impede further development and assess legislative interventions accordingly.
mr. chairman, i speak as the shadow rapporteur on the committee on transport and tourism. as in other areas, the opportunities and challenges of digitalisation are intertwined. the transport sector is one of the pioneers in the use of new information technologies, as evidenced by, for example, intelligent transport systems. digitalisation means greater safety and comfort of travel, it has its place in the field of more efficient logistics or tourism. the challenges of training and staffing requirements, but also those related to the availability of new technologies, are also relevant in the transport sector, as is the demand that we not create new barriers instead of making life easier. i would also mention the issue of discrimination based on geographical location or country of origin. it cannot be approached differently in the online and offline worlds, and i am glad that the report takes this into account. and in closing, let me congratulate and thank both reporters, evelyne gebhardt and kaja kallas, for their excellent work.
mr president, the digital market, as has been said many times here, is a great opportunity for the development of business, services, education and culture. the european parliament and the european commission must provide the strategic and legislative framework that this parliament's report proposes and also contains a number of specific tasks. i would mention two priorities. i am glad that the commissioner has also focused on copyright protection, because the accessibility of content is of course a right of the users, but the users also have a right to the quality of this content, and without copyright protection it is not possible to fulfil this quality. so that was one of the top priorities. the second is child protection. the internet is a good service, but a very dangerous master. therefore, the protection of children from abuse on the internet should also be a priority for both the technical and legislative proposals that the commission should put forward, and i call on it to do so.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, as it is not a matter of extradition of a political nature, but of speeding, i trust the polish judiciary to judge the act fairly.
in writing. ‒ the polish general inspectorate of road traffic accuses mr siekierski of failing to respect the speed limit on 19 january 2015. this accusation does not impact mr siekierski’s capacity to perform his duty as an mep nor is it intended to cause him political damage. therefore i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of mep czesław adam siekierski.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, as it is not a matter of extradition of a political nature, but of speeding, i trust the polish judiciary to judge the act fairly.
in writing. ‒ the polish general inspectorate of road traffic accuses mr siekierski of failing to respect the speed limit on 19 april 2015. this accusation does not intend to cause political damage to mr siekierski. without prejudging his guilt, i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of mep czesław adam siekierski.
in writing. ‒ i have held back from saying that i respect that fisheries policy is a matter for member states with access to the sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mato report on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the report aims at transposing measures recently adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas to which the european union is party. at the beginning of the 2000s, the bluefin tuna stock drastically dropped, leading to the adoption of a multiannual recovery plan to help rebuilding the stock. those new measures include provisions on the catch reporting requirement, the fishing seasons and restrictions on the types of gear to be used. in addition, i also supported the amendment calling for a review of the bluefin tuna fishing quota system in order to encourage sustainable fishing and enable the protection of small-scale fishermen against the monopoly of large vessel owners.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it gives a realistic assessment of state of play of the eu competition policy. however, i could not agree with several paragraphs calling for investigation of google related to the use of android systems in mobile devices or accommodation booking engines. i believe we should respect the independence of the competition authorities. they must be free to act independently and should not take actions based on political pressure.
in writing. ‒ this report outlines the european parliament main recommendations on how to improve eu competition policy and member states’ corporate taxation practices. the increasing digitalisation of our economy requires new european rules on fair taxation and market dominance; this is one of our biggest challenges. the turnover criterion is not enough to determine whether a digital company has a dominant market position. the customer base must also be taken into consideration. we should also review the sanctions procedure. i find it counter-productive that a company which benefited from illegal state aid from a member state has to return the money to the same member state.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it calls for an investigation into google for 'misconduct' such as supplying android os in conjunction with other products. i also don't agree with the attempts to regulate companies like uber, airbnb and others. i am also against the introduction of a 'harmonised corporate tax base'. i'm for tax competition between states that prevents governments from taxing citizens too much.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the majority of my colleagues voted in favour of this annual report. the european union's competition policy is one of the key areas in which the european union institutions can play a positive role in promoting economic growth. i believe it is important that the european union establishes a fair and effective legal framework to oversee consumer protection, a transparent and clear system of financial aid and taxation. although i have some doubts about the wording of paragraph 89 concerning distortions of competition, tax evasion and automatic exchange of information on tax evasion, i believe that overall this report will help to create a healthy and fair competitive environment and reduce unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which outlines the european parliament’s main recommendations on how to improve eu competition policy and member states’ corporate taxation practices. the increasing digitalisation of our economy requires new european rules on fair taxation and market dominance; this is one of our biggest challenges. i opposed all the provisions which involves the google case and google’s dominant position on the hotel reservation sector market.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this report, which contains many recommendations for improving competition policy, which is one of the fundamental pillars of the social market economy in europe and an important tool for the proper functioning of the eu internal market. i think it is important that the european commission investigates thoroughly the abuse of a dominant position in order to protect us as consumers. i am also in favour of updating the general rules of competition in the digital economy to reflect the current market reality. i consider it necessary to continue a very intensive dialogue with the commission in this area and i would very much welcome the replacement of the consultation procedure with the ordinary legislative procedure in the future.
mr president, i have supported this report because i am aware that education, better knowledge, also the fundamental values of the union, which are embodied in article 5, whether it be the rule of law, the defence of human rights, are undoubtedly values worth protecting and at the same time communicating to those cultures and societies which have not yet reached this stage of knowledge. however, i would like to make the point that intercultural dialogue is different from multiculturalism. i think it is quite dangerous to substitute the notion of identity, of roots and traditions for the supposed value of multiculturalism. i think that to blame the countries that are members of the european union, but have not yet reached this stage of society's development, this alleged lack, is very late.
in writing. ‒ i voted against a report that promotes the artificial ideology of multiculturalism and calls for the funding of propaganda in schools and interferes with national education policies.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education play one of the most important roles in promoting the fundamental values of the european union, all the more so now that we are witnessing the violent and dramatic events that we have had to face in recent months. intercultural dialogue is a two-way process in which both sides experience each other's situation, leading to greater empathy, volunteering, the development of critical and creative thinking skills and, above all, the ability to deal with different points of view. as working examples of this process, i can name erasmus plus and various initiatives implemented by ngos that are funded by eu funds. i believe it is important to continue to support these efforts to build social cohesion among people.
in writing. i supported the report on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the union's fundamental values, as i believe that its text well describes the current difficult situation and at the same time indicates the means to improve it. the text does not in any way compromise the union's fundamental values, which in this context include, in particular, democracy, respect for the individual and the prohibition of discrimination. in these circumstances, intercultural dialogue should be developed as a tool for peaceful coexistence between people of different ethnicities or religions. education plays a key role here. it is necessary to agree that 'meaningful intercultural dialogue requires a good knowledge of one's own culture and of other cultures'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education. indeed, in a period of troubles for europe, i believe that intercultural dialogue can play an important role in the fight against all kind of radicalism. in the report adopted we underline the need to combine efforts in an effort to prevent and fight against marginalisation, intolerance, racism and radicalisation, in the context of equal opportunities for all.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because i see it as a key effort to deepen intercultural dialogue, especially in the light of the current situation with the migration wave. it can help prevent manifestations of anti-semitism, xenophobia, racism and religious intolerance. i consider it crucial that education and awareness-raising activities on different cultures take place at all levels of civil society in all the member states of the union.
mr president, i supported this report on my own initiative because i think it illustrates well the fundamental problems we see in the approach to finance in the european market - the capital markets union is part of this - and in comparison with the approach to finance for the development of businesses, but also small start-ups at the level of the united states of america, for example. we must recognise that this is a fundamental problem in the development of businesses and the service sector at european union level. this also undermines investment, investment and the ability to innovate at european level. that is why i have supported this report and would very much like the european commission to respect it when it comes to creating further legislation in this area of the creation of a capital markets union.
in writing. ‒ this stocktaking report is well balanced. i believe it is particularly important, at this time, that the commission undertakes a cumulative impact assessment of all measures implemented in the wake of the financial crisis. we need to be sure, as we try to build a capital markets union, that rules we have put in place since 2008 address systemic risk concerns while also leaving room for growth and innovation in european financial markets.
in writing. ‒ i am against this report, which wrongly sees the causes of the financial crisis in the lack of regulation. he's calling for intervention in the market for credit rating agencies and other regulations. that would only further damage the financial market.
in writing. i supported the report by mr balz and i believe that the next steps should begin with an analysis of the many obstacles to cross-border access, marketing and investment. at the same time, i believe that consumers should not be overwhelmed by large volumes of information, but that attention should be focused on the quality and clarity of information to enable informed decisions to be made. let us look for ways to strike a balance so that consumers are provided with the information they need to make informed decisions and to understand the risks involved, without placing an unnecessary burden on businesses, especially smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe it is particularly important that the commission undertakes an impact assessment of all measures that have been implemented in the wake of the financial crisis. moreover an effective financial services framework ensuring financial stability is a prerequisite for increasing (long-term) investment and fostering growth in a competitive european economy.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the proposal of the report as the final text included particular paragraph explicitly calling for introduction of gender quotas which i strongly oppose. while the text mentions some real issues related to obstacles women face when running a business, quotas are not an appropriate instrument to remedy the situation.
in writing. ‒ as a previous (female) entrepreneur, i truly believe in promoting female entrepreneurship. it is important to strive for an eu-wide approach to encourage and support women in building their career in the private sector, including facilitating access to finance and business opportunities. unfortunately this report goes far beyond this goal and that is the reason why i decided to abstain on the final vote. it feels to me counter-productive to call for additional rules of gender mainstreaming and for gender quotas in distributing eu funds for entrepreneurship. making business should be simple, and access to finance should be simplified and not vice versa. moreover, calling for a mandatory paternity leave as a way of promoting female entrepreneurship seems to be an overstated measure which i cannot support in this context.
‒ women have no legal obstacles to doing business, so all politicians have to do is let entrepreneurs work, pay low taxes and not burden them with bureaucracy and nonsense. nor is it the eu's role to call for a different division of household work within the family.
in writing. - the european union needs more entrepreneurs to return to growth and active job creation. moreover, its strategy for smart and sustainable growth clearly emphasises the need for policy initiatives to support entrepreneurship. equal economic independence is still not a given. although there is no conclusive evidence, we must continue to seriously address the possibility of discrimination against women entrepreneurs, for example in access to financial services, including bank loans. the figures show that, for many logical reasons, providers of these services still prefer larger companies in more profitable sectors that are traditionally dominated by men. women are more entrepreneurial in health, social care or education. these sectors are not as attractive as investment, but they are no less important. we need to fight stereotypes about the differences in women's and men's entrepreneurial skills and encourage their desire to enter the business world.
in writing. ‒ there is still a large gap between the number of men and women entrepreneurs in the european union, with entrepreneurship being one of the pillars of a healthy developed economy and a way to combat high unemployment and weak economic growth. i welcome the efforts to enable women to actively start their own businesses, to be able to reconcile work and private life without unnecessary administrative obstacles, and to find support in the creation of flexible employment opportunities. at the same time, we should be restrained in our efforts to give directives. this proposal aims to establish a fair starting point for all and not to artificially favour a certain part of the population with quotas.
in writing. i supported the report by my epp colleague barbara matera on the external factors that hinder women's entrepreneurship in europe. this is a subject close to my heart as a member of the committee on women's rights, but also as rapporteur for the european parliament on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education. the report is relevant as the gender gap in entrepreneurial working life is still evident: of all eu-28 citizens who were self-employed in 2012, only 31% were women. the report identifies a number of obstacles to women becoming more entrepreneurial in europe. these include access to finance, where the report suggests some improvements. i voted in favour of the proposals which would improve the report in terms of respecting subsidiarity and not going into details of behaviour which are absurd from the eu level. these include, for example, a call for more male participation in domestic work or a recommendation that the commission introduce gender quotas for all forms of targeted business support. i supported the report despite these few details, which are not binding, because i consider it more important that the european parliament sends a signal in support of women's initiative and increased sensitivity to the obstacles that prevent women from better reconciling family and professional life.
in writing. ‒ although in 2016 it is of the utmost important to encourage women entrepreneurs and to promote economic growth, job creation and women’s empowerment, i decided to abstain on the final vote of this report. indeed, while i share the view that we need concrete measures to increase the level of women’s participation in the labour market, i am opposed to the introduction of quotas for men and women. i believe that these kind of binding measures are not effective.
in writing. ‒ today 4.5 million young people aged between 15 and 24 are unemployed in europe. this poses a serious threat to both the economic and social future of europe. to deal with such a challenge, we need appropriate instruments which would help the young generation to develop the skills our labour market actually needs. i believe entrepreneurship is one of them; it is the main driving force for growth. we must boost young people’s confidence and encourage them to set up their own business. to this end, more should be done on partnership between education and businesses, for example. by applying the recommendations of this report, i think member states could better use the potential of this new generation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the eu wants to tackle youth unemployment by increasing subsidies for their integration, education, etc. the report calls for taxpayers' money to be spent on european propaganda: 'more money to be spent on disseminating information about european funding instruments'.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report which deals with a really important issue, namely youth unemployment. often, they graduate and find themselves in job boards with no hope of a future employment. we are slowly but surely becoming what is called a lost generation of youth. the situation in europe is alarming, with youth unemployment in spain reaching 55%. the report contains some positive aspects, such as the emphasis on integrated training and experience in future-oriented fields. but because i don't agree that the main solution to this tragic situation is to encourage young people to be entrepreneurs, to the extent that entrepreneurship should be taught in primary schools, i abstained in the final vote.
‒ the recent financial and economic crisis has undoubtedly affected most age groups, especially the younger ones. as the average european youth unemployment rate has risen to over 20% during the crisis and is still a problem area for a large number of eu countries, i voted in favour of a report on skills policies to combat unemployment. the report rightly points to the need for cross-sectoral cooperation and dialogue between all stakeholders, including not only the business community but also local authorities, social partners and civil society. we must not forget that if we are to succeed and achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy, it is not enough to take into account only the needs of the labour market. we must ensure that young europeans are equipped with the necessary transversal competences. in this respect, we should not forget in particular the importance of language studies and digital literacy, which are becoming increasingly important factors. i supported this report because we cannot continue to be satisfied with a situation where youth unemployment affects up to 20 million europeans, while there are 2 million jobs that are unfilled. we can eliminate this marked disparity, but only if the member states take their share of responsibility and develop an optimal national strategy to which the european union can subsequently contribute.
in writing. the fact that there are over 7 million young people in the european union without a job or further education is alarming. the young generation is crucial to the future of the european economy. as a social democrat, i am convinced that further measures are needed to support them, to promote education, to develop individual skills and to simplify administrative and financial access to business. member states, together with the social partners and training providers, must work to improve communication and cooperation between training institutions, administrations and enterprises. from a european perspective, support for the erasmus and erasmus plus programmes is also essential, as they are a key eu-wide tool for providing vocational training and developing transversal skills. member states also need to adopt long-term policies and invest effectively in strategic cooperation, innovation and new technologies. we must not only focus on meeting the immediate needs of the labour market, but above all on the comfortable development of individuals and their equipping with cutting-edge skills.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament's motion for a resolution on skills policies to combat youth unemployment. the current figures for youth unemployment are alarming and do not expect a significant improvement in the statistics. so i support this effective effort to reduce the negative impact of this problem and try to address it. the report contains the key points concerning the problem of youth employment. i consider it important that young people are not disadvantaged by a relative lack of work experience in the labour market and have a fair playing field, as active involvement of young people in the economic process is an important stimulus for future economic growth. today's changing world also brings with it changing demands on young people's skills and knowledge. quality education, support for student mobility and programmes such as erasmus and traineeships are just a few examples of effective tools to reduce youth unemployment.
in writing. the alarmingly high level of youth unemployment is one of europe's most pressing problems today. the unused potential of the young generation is not only a loss for the european economy, but also has serious long-term societal implications in the form of social exclusion of young people. i therefore appreciate the focus of this report and have supported the proposal.
in writing. i voted for the report on policies focusing on skills to combat youth unemployment, as i believe this is an important topic to reflect on. it is not a legislative report, but 'just' a text by which the european parliament contributes to the debate on this subject, yet it contains an interesting summary of the situation and suggestions for possible solutions. i believe that the solution is not to support one sector of education, but to adopt a more sophisticated approach to the current digital economy, where the ability to make decisions, to analyse, to speak foreign languages, etc. is a prerequisite for employment. these are the prerequisites for a subsequent active career path.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on skills policies for fighting youth employment. today almost 5 million young people are unemployed in the eu while there are 2 million unfilled job vacancies: action is needed to bridge the gap. the report acknowledges the existing generational gap and calls for a better understanding of the digital skills of young people: rapid technological progress are not always matched by the current education and recruitment systems. the report calls for increased cooperation between local authorities, social partners and education providers to ensure a more strategic use of eu funds in this area. over the past years, the labour market has faced tremendous changes which require more flexible education systems. in this sense, i also welcome the provisions of this report on the role of enterprises, including smes, in job creation, the employment of young people, but also in training, for instance thanks to professional experience throughout and after the education cycle. in this respect, for example, i believe member states should take an active part in the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs to encourage young people to lead business projects across the eu and develop new skills.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment is a long-term eu problem that needs to be addressed as quickly as possible. i am in favour of deeper cooperation between schools and employers, leading to the adaptation of teaching to the specific needs of the current labour market. only creative teaching in schools and highly trained teachers can impart skills to make it easier for young people to enter the labour market. i have long supported youth entrepreneurship, especially in the form of start-ups, through which fresh projects of talented young people are given a chance. i believe that it is necessary to link theoretical training with practical training, which significantly facilitates the transition from the educational process to the employment process.
in writing. ‒ as stated during the debate in the plenary, this report has my support as it finally presents a relevant eu strategy in digital area. it should give us an impetus to promote and further develop digital economy in europe and we should use it fully, as we are already late to the game.
in writing. ‒ the 21st century economy is becoming more and more digitalised. in order to effectively adapt to this, we need an open market which encourages innovation and investment while deterring protectionism. i voted in favour of the report on the digital single market as it emphasises the importance of embracing changes brought about by digitalisation in an online world which has no borders.
in writing. - i voted against it. the fine talk of the digital market is wrapped in calls for a single taxation and a single regulation. the digital market needs freedom, not more european regulation.
in writing. the digital single market report is undoubtedly one of the most important topics of the current legislative period. i am aware of the modernisation of the times and the astonishingly rapid development of the digital market. the internet has become an integral part of the daily lives of virtually all citizens, who use it not only to search for information but also to make online purchases and share information on social networks. the diversity of rules in the internal market creates a number of obstacles for both operators and users. we support net neutrality and also the removal of geoblocking. however, our group also points out some of the risks associated with this development, such as the lack of protection for those who work from home, the difficulty of adapting to new technologies for older generations of citizens and, last but not least, the lack of protection of personal data. that's why i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. i supported the report, which should be the starting point for the development and presentation of 16 legislative initiatives in the area of the digital market, for which the ep will have co-decision powers and will therefore be a key player. at the level of concrete measures, our efforts must be directed, for example, towards ending the practice of blocking digital content on the basis of geographical location, ensuring equal protection for consumers regardless of whether they have purchased digital content online or in a brick-and-mortar store, and finding innovative solutions in cross-border parcel delivery to improve services and reduce costs.
in writing. ‒ the report on the roadmap to the digital single market act is, i believe, a good basis for creating the necessary legislative framework for digital technology providers and users in the european union. i must acknowledge that this is a complexly negotiated compromise of many professional and political interests, which contains the opinion of six parliamentary committees. as vice-president of the committee on education and culture, i can confirm the acceptability of the final report in the areas which i consider to be essential from our point of view, namely ensuring copyright protection, the safety and protection of children from abuse on the internet and, last but not least, the accessibility of digital content for educational and cultural purposes. i am convinced that copyright protection is not incompatible with the accessibility of content to users or the competitiveness of the european digital market. it is in the interest of eu citizens, who have a right to accessibility, to have access to quality content, and this cannot be ensured without copyright protection for creators. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the report therefore calls on the commission and the member states to take specific measures to combat the sexual exploitation of children online, to support all initiatives that already seek to make children safer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the roadmap to the digital single market act. this non-legislative report responds to one of the main agenda items of the current european commission, namely the creation of a digital single market in the european union, the implementation of which the report supports. the digital single market concerns a number of topics which fall within the competence of many committees, including the committee on legal affairs. i therefore welcome the fact that the opinion of the committee on legal affairs has been taken into account and that the report also includes the issue of new rules for cross-border trade, where there is a need to improve the legal protection of consumers in the online environment, the issue of geo-blocking, where there is a need to address the problem of unfair geo-blocking, and the issue of modernisation of copyright rules, where there is a consensus on the need to modernise these rules in the light of the current state of the digital environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the digital single market act report. i consider digitalisation of our economy as a viable tool which can boost growth and cut costs of our citizens and businesses without creating a public debt. therefore i welcome the strategic proposal on the dsm adopted by the commission in may 2015 and a report adopted jointly by the itre and imco committees in december 2015. as a member of the itre committee, which together with imco was the leading committee for this file, i really appreciate work done by parliament and all colleagues involved in this task, which was definitely not easy. i consider this report as an important contribution to the digital single market strategy. i also appreciate the focus on e-government, a level playing field and smes and start-ups in particular. the right digital environment and non-regulatory framework can help our businesses grow and be more competitive. and i really hope the eu will be able to deliver.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this report because new communication technologies are increasingly being used in our daily lives and the creation of a digital single market will make it easier for us consumers to use technologies. i agree that it is necessary to ensure the security and protection of citizens' data in the virtual environment. i consider it important to combat cybercrime and illegal content, including hate speech. i consider the digitisation of public administration in europe to be a necessary step towards improving transparency, for example by enabling citizens to access official documents. the current global economy makes it necessary for the digital single market to allow data to move not only within the eu but also beyond.
mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i very much welcome the initiative on common border protection presented by the council in december 2015, but at the same time i am disappointed to hear that the agreement is to be postponed for more than seven months, i.e. to june 2016. we have heard in this debate the demand of the majority of members that this initiative be adopted as soon as possible. i would like to call on you to do so, you have the competence and you also have the responsibility and you hear that you have the european parliament's strong support to reach agreement as soon as possible. i want to ask you what is preventing the next council, which may be an extraordinary council, because there is an emergency situation, perhaps already in february, from reaching an agreement and starting to protect the borders as soon as possible?
ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a scandalous situation here, with the european union initiating proceedings against poland which are to end only with the withdrawal of voting rights. and for what? what did poland do? that it establishes a two-thirds quorum for the constitutional court's decisions? that the new government is pushing its vision for the public media? for something that exists and is common in many other countries of the european union? that's ridiculous, of course, and it's an excuse. what's wrong with the european commission? that the party that doesn't like the european union as it is now has won. that he wants to stand up to the unjust dictate of immigration quotas, that's what i think is the real reason. i think this is nothing more than an outrageous interference in the affairs of a sovereign country. john fitzgerald kennedy famously said in 1963 in besieged west berlin, "i am a berliner". today, we need to stand with poland, which is being unjustly attacked by the european commission, and so let me end as a proud, free citizen: ja jestem polakiem.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i would firstly, like to congratulate the vice-president on colombia. i will be happy to be here in a few months’ time, even at midnight, to congratulate her also on syria. i do not want to be redundant because a lot of what she has said would be my conclusions having read through the rather large file in the last couple of days, but let me say a few words anyway. firstly, it is clear that the five bloody years of a very bloody war has had its influence, its impact. it has had its impact primarily, of course, on the syrians, but it can be felt across the world. we can see the devastating consequences of the daesh terrorist attacks on the french, the russians, the turks, the lebanese and the saudis, just to mention some of them. i think that last year was a wake-up call for europeans, in particular. the syrian war is clearly reshaping politics across the continent, especially as the response to a surge of syrian refugees has called even the european union’s raison d’être into question. the november 2015 terrorist attacks in paris have meant in reality that the threat is driving day-to-day concerns across the continent. i very much believe that we will make progress in geneva. we cannot fail, but there are four points which i think are preconditions, and for the sake of time, i will exceptionally read them out. firstly, all sides, including the assad regime, russia and iran, must abide by the un security council resolution 2254: ‘fulfil its demand to immediately cease military attacks against civilians, and to allow humanitarian aid across syria to help all people in need, including the besieged areas’. of course, madaya has to be mentioned among them. any political situation is hardly imaginable without concrete humanitarian improvements for the people in syria. secondly, that the talks have a clear agenda and deliver a real political transition towards non-sectarian inclusive governance without assad. the eu must step up its efforts on the international scene and get all the other regional and global powers to respect the agreements made and to constructively back this process. finally, de-escalating the broader war in syria: this is a prerequisite for any effective campaign against isis. no military strategy against a group that is detached from the wider syrian dynamics will be effective, as many of the key actors needed to defeat isis have their own priorities. i wish you the best of luck, and of course i am happy that that the czech embassy in syria, now being the last eu embassy, will be providing a helping hand on the humanitarian side, especially on the infrastructure we have in place.
mr. chairman, the islamic state and president assad's regime are the main players in the civil war. the assad regime stands or falls by collaborating with foreign allies. russia intervened militarily in september of last year to support the assad regime at a time when assad's opponents were gaining ground. they saved the de facto assad regime, prolonged the war and caused a new wave of refugees. unfortunately, there have been voices in the european union recently calling for cooperation with assad and the russian federation. for example, czech president miloš zeman has openly called for support for assad. even at home, in the european parliament, there is a growing consensus that we need to work with russia to fight terrorism. i find this situation absurd and schizophrenic for two reasons. first, they're calls to cooperate with a country that's committing state terror itself. on the one hand, we want to sanction russia, on the other hand, we want to work with it? second, the assad regime is far more dangerous to the average syrian than the islamic state. while is was responsible for approximately 1,400 civilian deaths in 2015, assad was responsible for the deaths of more than 12,000 syrians in the same period, including 2,600 children and 2,000 women. this comparison is provided by the syrian network for human rights, a serious organization that also works for the un. it also gives the number of syrians who were tortured by the assad regime. the government's human rights abuses are also out of line with the practices of the islamic state terrorists.
madam president, i would like to commend the steps taken by representative mogherini. i think her moves are pretty deliberate and consistent. i would like to ask, in light of the decision that was made this saturday, whether this means for the iranian opposition, represented by the ncri, mrs. rajavi and other platforms, that the european union will leave them. i firmly believe that this will not be the case, that we will be watching further developments in iran and with these groups, which represent a significant part of society. i firmly believe that what mrs mogherini has mentioned, that is the de-escalation, will really be a lasting contribution of the european union, even in these very troubled times and in the troubled parts of the continent.
commissioner, it is a bit symbolic that we are sitting here today discussing this directive when you yourself have experience of guilt and innocence in the czech judiciary and when you have been dragged for several months through the czech media as guilty of something you never committed. so let me first express my deep admiration for you for putting up with it. you are a model case of why this directive should be applied in practice. because we should presume that every accused is innocent until proven guilty. i take it for granted that this should be the case in every member state of the european union. it is a fundamental principle of legal procedure and must be guaranteed to every accused and every suspect. it is one of the key tools we have to guarantee a fair trial throughout the european union. i believe that the european union must not only enforce this right, but also ensure that it is respected by the individual states.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, madam commissioner, these three files might not be the sexiest topics, especially at this point of time. but, because of the work of all us involved in the negotiations, every european citizens will be a little safer after tomorrow’s votes. citizens will know that when they go to work, take a hot shower or take a ski lift to the top of a mountain – no matter where they are in europe – the highest safety standards will apply. i am also happy that common sense prevailed in these negotiations. so, for instance the historical cableways like the one in prague – the petřín cableway – are excluded from the regulation. for me, these files are good examples of where european harmonisation just makes common sense. unless there is a justifiable reason that a technical standard should be different between one member state and another, common technical regulations help to increase competition in the marketplace. lower over-regulation and make our lives easier and safer. madam commissioner, i would like to encourage the commission to continue to use its legislative powers to harmonise where it makes sense and the benefit is clear. such acts are vital to a well-functioning single market.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, as has been said, it is perhaps a pity that it is so late in the evening and we are dealing with this issue, which is certainly of interest to the citizens of the european union. the commission's objective, as stated, is to replace the original 1989 directive by a regulation ensuring the compulsory and uniform use of ppe in all member states. it should be noted that this is a significant economic importance for the european market, estimated at around eur 10 billion in 2010 and continuing to grow, stimulated in particular by advanced technologies, technological innovation such as new fibres, smart fabrics and nanomaterials. i believe that most of the proposed changes are positive. however, i find some of them problematic. for example, the incorporation of personal protective equipment against heat, moisture and water, or the diversity of language modes chosen for the different information to be communicated, or the discrepancy between the 10-year period for the retention of the technical file and the 5-year period for the validity of the certificate of conformity. the key issue in this proposal, in my view, is how to strike a balance between protecting the interests of consumers and producers, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, and promoting the use of personal protective equipment in a global policy for preventing risks in the workplace. i believe that this regulation will contribute to the safety of our citizens.
mr president, i would like to say to the prime minister that we know that we are in a very difficult time, we are under pressure, but this pressure can be used as the way finally to get good decisions. i hope, prime minister, that good decisions will come from your presidency in months to come. let me mention two areas. firstly, unlike mr lambert, i believe the commitments of your presidency to tackle the programme of taxation in europe. due to work done by the commission and parliament, we can make and achieve huge progress in months to come and i hope your finance minister will share the commitment presented at the meeting of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and will push it through. at the same time i want to remind that the anti-beps directive that is currently being prepared by the commission is only a partial solution to the problem. i would like to ask you to show commitment and dedicated energy to getting support for the ccctb project in the council and i hope you will succeed. more importantly for our citizens, let me talk about migration. on migration we just do not need words and meetings, we need solutions. we have good proposals, we have good tools and we just have to implement them. let me mention all of them or most of them: protection of the borders, a list of safe countries, treaties with our neighbours, better law enforcement, a repatriation programme and fair sharing of the cost. i would kindly ask you to really act on time. we need a quick solution for a better future, not just meetings, not just declarations, but a solution. i hope you will use your experience and your credibility to secure the necessary agreement in the council.
mr. prime minister, you are not the first presidency to have the agenda to get the european commission to finally set criteria for endocrine disruptors. i beg you, i hope you will be the presidency that will finally help us to enforce this, because these substances are killing us. they are killing the european population, and i'm glad that among the big problems, migration and so on, has remained the environment. thank you for doing this. we'd love to help you, so help us. i'm very pleased that it's in your will to address the issue of antimicrobial resistance. if we don't solve it, our health systems will lose antibiotics, and the pressure that's going to be on them is incredibly high. as for your priority of sound european finances, mr prime minister, perhaps it would be enough if the practice of mailbox companies and tax treaties in the netherlands were ended. just start at home.
in writing. ‒ i have refrained from doing so because i do not want to prevent latvia from exchanging vehicle registration data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to vehicle registration data (vrd) in latvia. this aims to authorise latvia to receive and supply personal data in accordance with council decision 2008/615/jha from the date of entry into force of the decision with respect to automated data exchange regarding vehicle registration data.
madam president, i would also like to mention that last year marked the 800th anniversary of the adoption of such a fundamental document as the magna carta libertatum. it was really essential for us as a parliament to insist not only on the substantive guarantees of a fair trial, a fair trial, but also on the form, on the formal rules. a procedure that really does form the backbone of a fair trial. and it turns out that in some countries, centuries of proven principles just work together to form a coherent whole. it is not possible to take away certain rights and weaken them. the guarantees provided by the charter of fundamental rights and freedoms, as well as those that have been proven over the centuries, simply form the framework for a fair trial, including in criminal matters. that's why i endorsed the report.
in writing. ‒ although presumption of innocence is a fundamental principle of law enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights, there are still reports of violations of this principle by some member states. this new directive seeks to better ensure that the right to be presumed innocent until proven guilty in criminal proceedings is respected in the eu. it significantly improves citizens’ rights to a fair trial as well as the provisions on public statement about accused persons. moreover, member states should ensure appropriate presentation of the person so as not to create an impression of guilt. these changes will help to avoid any arbitrariness and abuse during criminal proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i take it for granted that the principle of the presumption of innocence and the elementary legal protection of the accused in the eu are respected.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report that is part of a package of three proposals for directives aimed at strengthening procedural rights in the eu. these three directives will allow the finalisation of the european legal system that exists in the area of the rights of defence of suspects, accused persons or persons charged in criminal proceedings throughout the european union. these are key instruments that should guarantee a fair trial throughout the european union and full respect for the rights of the defence as guaranteed by the european treaties, the european charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights. i therefore welcome the european commission's proposal for a directive to strengthen certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at criminal proceedings. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right and a fundamental principle which serves to exclude arbitrariness and any abuse in criminal proceedings and is the principle underpinning the protection of the right to a fair trial in accordance with article 6 of the european convention on human rights, article 48 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the international covenant on civil and political rights and the universal declaration of human rights. that's why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached on the directive on the presumption of innocence. this directive aims to ensure that the principle of the presumption of innocence is applied throughout the eu and the member states must act accordingly until the guilt of the suspect has been proved. the text adopted recognises that the burden of proof must lie with the prosecution and that the accused must have the benefit of any doubt. additionally, the right to remain silent must not be used against individuals, a european parliament press release explains. once formally adopted by the council, the member states will have two years to transpose the text.
in writing. ‒ the presumption of innocence is a fundamental principle of judicial procedure and i have therefore decided to support this directive, which strengthens the aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at criminal proceedings. i consider it important that the same standards for the application of the presumption of innocence be set in all the member states of the european union. i also agree with the other points proposed in the directive, such as the right not to testify not automatically implying an admission of guilt by the defendant.
the fact is, madam president, that the protection of individuals is indeed linked to technological development and is contrary both to the opportunities and to the principles of the internal market. it must be admitted that the introduction or improvement of rules for the protection of individuals will simply have an impact on the budgets of legal entities, of course on the budgets of individual workers, and on public budgets. however, in supporting this proposal, which i welcome - and i really thank the rapporteur for her excellent work - i have decided to compare and weigh this support against the risks i have outlined. i think that in protecting people, in protecting workers, we should not lose the opportunities that the new legislation brings. that means, even though there are some problems, we cannot take any relief.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i do not agree that harmonisation in the area of protective equipment such as rain and heat gloves should be further addressed by a detailed regulation.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the proposal for a regulation that the commission intends to replace the outdated personal protective equipment directive. a regulation would bring about full harmonisation and a single, directly applicable legislation across all eu member states. although i generally welcome the proposal and consider it very important, particularly in relation to safety and health at work, there are some passages in the proposal which i consider problematic. these include the extension of certain categories of personal protective equipment, certain unjustified, in my view, increased administrative requirements for manufacturers, etc. although i am fully aware of the importance of this sector, which is also developing rapidly, particularly thanks to new technologies such as nanomaterials, high-quality fabrics, etc., i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. i supported a report which ensures greater safety of protective equipment and thus means increased consumer protection without creating an excessive administrative burden. in this case, the ep successfully corrected the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include common household protective equipment such as kitchen gloves and handles, which would have led to additional costs for their manufacturers and, ultimately, to higher prices for end consumers.
in writing. i supported this regulation because it brings an updated set of measures to streamline and simplify the rules on personal protective equipment in the single market, while at the same time strengthening the protection of end-users of a wide range of personal protective equipment.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the adoption of parliament's amendments to the eu's proposed regulation on personal protective equipment, which primarily aims to modernise and update the existing directive with the new legal framework. the proposal for a regulation is specific where the current directive is confusing and unclear, which has so far led to different interpretations of the rules for ensuring the safety of personal protective equipment in different eu countries. the new regulation aims to simplify the regulatory environment in this area, while ensuring that only products that meet all safety standards and the rules for free movement within the single market enter the eu market. i think it is positive that parliament has excluded personal protective equipment for private use, such as kitchen handles, from the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation on the safety of personal protective equipment such as life jackets or bicycle helmets. since 1989, the placing of personal protective equipment (ppe) on the eu market has been fully harmonised through council directive 89/686/eec. in the intervening 25 years, this directive has enabled a functioning single market. despite this, the existing ppe legislation is in need of updating in line with the new legislative framework (nlf) which is a package of measures designed to streamline and simplify regulations of goods across the single market. in particular, in response to concerns that current regulatory requirements are confusing and duplicative, the regulation clarifies the role of economic operators, reinforces cooperation between actors and introduces common definitions. the common approach under the nlf also clarifies the powers of market surveillance authorities enabling the tracking and returning of unsafe goods placed on the single market.
in writing. ‒ i support this report, which updates the existing legislation in this area. i believe that simplifying and making these rules more effective is a step in the right direction. i agree with the clarification of certain concepts and the introduction of clear definitions that allow for the same interpretation of this regulation in all member states of the union. i believe it is important that only products that will actually protect the health of workers in the performance of their jobs are allowed on the eu market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation laying down the rules for the use of domestic gas appliances. for example, in the czech republic, it concerns the popular gas-flow heaters, or karems. in the eu, these devices are the most common cause of gas-related deaths, and unfortunately, we also hear from time to time about victims of carbon monoxide poisoning. the regulation adopted by the ep clearly defines the standards that all gas appliances must meet and also requires their certification in accordance with european standards. this will clearly contribute to the availability of only tested equipment on our market and will strengthen the prevention of possible accidents.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree that the eu should continue to deal with the harmonisation of these appliances, these powers should be derived from an international agreement between states and manufacturers.
in writing. i supported this regulation as it brings an updated set of measures intended to streamline and simplify the common essential requirements and conformity assessment procedures to be followed by manufacturers when placing gas appliances on the market. i consider the rapporteur's success in particular to be the enforcement of the requirements for preventive measures to prevent carbon monoxide poisoning of persons. these are the main cause of death in europe in connection with gaseous fuel appliances.
in writing. by approving today the amendments to the draft eu regulation on gas appliances, the european parliament has contributed to improving the safety of citizens in the european union. the new proposal, which has passed its first reading today, aims to change the legal framework from a directive to a regulation. this legislative form will better avoid divergent implementation in the member states and thus guarantee the same level of safety protection. over 470 million cookers, boilers and other gas appliances are used daily in the eu, both inside and outside the home. the clarification and harmonisation of the existing rules for manufacturers and importers, including from third countries, will strengthen market surveillance and product control, which should inter alia prevent gas poisoning and health leakage of harmful and dangerous substances, which are the main cause of death in europe in connection with gas appliances. i very much welcome the fact that the new regulation will thus introduce stricter requirements, in particular on health and safety, which should also help to increase consumer confidence in the quality of products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to set up an eu regulation instead of directive 2009/142/ec. this directive enabled harmonisation of the conditions for placing on the market appliances burning gaseous fuels. turning the directive into a regulation is in line with my agenda for better regulation as it will simplify the regulatory environment. this was confirmed by the commission’s impact assessment. in addition, member states will not be allowed to impose any additional requirements in their national legislation.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the historic cable car has been removed from the scope of the regulation. in the czech republic, we have thus de facto saved the present form of the petřín cable car or a similar attraction in karlovy vary. for these devices, it will not be strictly required that their components comply with the regulation. that would be unthinkable in the historic petřín cable car plant. of course, this does not mean that these operations will be less safe, they must meet the basic safety standards that the czech republic regulates by its own legislation. i fully support the regulation, as clearer rules will apply to operators of towing and cableway installations and this means greater certainty for consumers that the installations are safe not only in our country but throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree that the eu should continue to deal with the harmonisation of these devices, these powers should be derived from an international agreement between states and manufacturers.
in writing. i supported this regulation because it brings an updated set of conditions for the supply of cableway subsystems and safety components to the market and ensures the free movement of these products in the eu. i very much welcome the explicit mention that the provisions of this regulation are based on the precautionary principle. i consider it a fundamental principle of ensuring the safety of products for the benefit of their users.
in writing. today in the european parliament i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation on cableways, which significantly amended the original proposal of the european commission. the main objective of this regulation is to harmonise the safety features of cableways and the conditions for the placing on the market of their subsystems in all member states of the european union. the regulation lays down specific rules on market surveillance in order to ensure the highest level of protection of health and safety of persons and property. parliament supported the proposal of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i voted in favour of the european parliament's report despite being made aware of a minor shortcoming concerning the definition of historic cableways. their inclusion in this category is left to the discretion of the individual member states and they remain excluded from the scope of this regulation. this deficiency can be remedied in the next legislative process. on the contrary, it is positive that the draft regulation clearly sets out the hitherto unclear distinction between cableways intended for passenger transport and for leisure activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation on cableway installations. the current framework under which the conditions of placing onto the market safety components for cable installations was established by directive 2000/9/ec from 2000. turning the directive into a regulation will simplify the current regulatory environment and ensure a uniform implementation throughout the eu. this regulatory change is in line with the better regulation agenda that i support. in addition, the proposal clarifies the scope of the regulation by specifying it is applicable only to cableway installations designed to transport persons and the related subsystems and safety components.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to maintain free trade with kyrgyzstan, which should not be affected by the different perception of minority politics. any restrictions on trade always have the opposite effect and lead to a tightening of local government policy.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the objection raised by the gue/ngl group to granting generalised tariff preferences to kyrgyzstan. up to now kyrgyzstan’s application has been encouraging: the committee against torture in its last report mentions some of the positive elements that were achieved, for instance towards compensation of victims or guaranteeing the independence of judges. many reforms are yet to be introduced, but i believe this is only within the gsp+ monitoring that we can closely accompany it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection in order to maintain the will to regulate the amount of sugar in the diet.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed a very important topic, namely the composition of the diet for the youngest children who, for various reasons, could not be breastfed or who had been weaned. of course, i agree that breast milk is indispensable for babies and, of course, it is the best thing a baby can have. however, if breastfeeding is not possible, we must also ensure the quality and the best possible composition of formula for infants. who studies show that poor diet is by far the most important cause of illness and death worldwide - more than tobacco, alcohol, and physical inactivity combined. therefore, it is vital that children be taught proper eating habits. i agree with the objection that the carbohydrate content of infant formula is too high and that misleading advertising for such products actually reduces the importance of breastfeeding. i voted to pass the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection because i believe that the commission's draft regulation is well prepared and adequately protects children's health. the left in the ep is misinterpreting the data and recommendations of the world health organisation and making unrealistic demands. on the other hand, the commission's approach is supported by the position of industry, consumer organisations and member states, including the czech republic, which have expressed their support for it.
in writing. i did not support the objection to the commission regulation on the compositional and information requirements for cereal-based infant formulae and foods for infants. unfortunately, the objection was eventually passed, albeit by a slim majority, and the commission regulation was vetoed. the regulation, which set the optimum sugar intake for infants, corresponded to the nutritional requirements set out in the world health organisation (who) framework. the opinion of the czech government, which i had at my disposal, also spoke in favour of the commission's regulation. the positive aspect is that the resolution dropped the requirement of zero tolerance for pesticides, which was illusory in the face of reality. the commission monitors the permitted levels of pesticides closely and its decisions are based on the recommendations of the european food safety authority, which i consider to be a sufficient guarantee. i had no factual or technical reason for rejecting the implementing regulation and therefore did not vote for it. the commission will now have to present a new regulation.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the objection raised by the greens/efa group on the draft delegated act by the commission on the specific compositional and information requirements for processed cereal-based food and baby food. according to regulation no 609/2013 on foods for specific groups, the commission is responsible for drafting specific compositional and information requirements for processed cereal-based food and baby food. current compositional requirements are about 20 years old and were agreed based on studies dating back to 1989-1990. the commission draft, which is opposed by this objection, complies with the most recent relevant codex alimentarius standards from 2006. although some of the findings may be outdated it is already a considerable improvement on the current situation and i find it regrettable that its entry into force will be delayed until a new study is published.
in writing. ‒ this resolution reaffirms that peace in colombia is a priority for the eu. full implementation of the peace agreement will be the real challenge. the creation of an eu trust fund to support the post-conflict phase is a concrete way for the eu to be with colombia all the way towards sustainable peace. this fund will help victims of the recently-ended 50-year internal conflict to seek truth, justice, reparations and prosecute war criminals. i believe this is an important step for latin america and i hope it will encourage other countries to follow the same positive path.
in writing. - i'm against all kinds of violence in colombia, recruiting of child soldiers, etc. but i do not think it is the role of parliament to adopt resolutions on problems everywhere in the world.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a joint motion for a resolution which appreciates and welcomes the peace process under way in colombia. colombia's internal conflict, which has lasted for more than 50 years, has claimed millions of lives. the resolution stresses that the priority for the eu and the international community as such is, of course, to achieve a stable and lasting peace in colombia. i welcome, of course, the agreements which have been reached so far between the colombian government and the farc with the aim of achieving peace in colombia. the resolution also stresses the importance of comprehensive agrarian reform agreements, political participation and democratisation aimed at peacebuilding. the next priority must be to tackle the problem of illicit drugs and to establish special courts of peace, including the creation of a truth, coexistence and non-recurrence commission, as well as a special unit to search for persons reported missing in connection with or as a result of the conflict. i voted for the resolution in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased and support the agreements that have been reached so far between the colombian government and the farc with the aim of achieving peace in colombia. i am aware of the political effort, realism and perseverance shown by both the colombian government and the farc in trying to reconcile their conflicting positions and gradually create room for compromise. i am convinced that the negotiations will be concluded as soon as possible, so that the conflict is finally ended and the conclusion of the negotiations becomes a milestone in the modern history of colombia. as a social democrat, i firmly believe that violence is not a legitimate method of political struggle and that democracy must be embraced with all its implications and demands. it will also be important for colombia that peacebuilding is accompanied by a determined effort to combat inequality and poverty, and i am pleased that the eu will provide significant support to colombia in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the peace negotiations in colombia. by voting on this text i expressed my support for a definitive end to the conflict as soon as possible. over the past months the eu high representative as well as the eu special envoy, eamon gilmore, supported colombians in the implementation of a possible peace agreement. the eu will also contribute to the introduction of a ceasefire follow-up mechanism and weapons handover.
in writing. ‒ colombia has been in an armed conflict for more than 50 years, which has claimed a great number of victims, and i have therefore decided to support the motion for a resolution which aims to establish lasting peace in the country. the peaceful world order is one of the european union's priorities, and i therefore support its involvement and efforts to bring about peace. the steps that have already been taken, such as the special courts of peace, are certainly milestones in the history of the country. but i believe that all agreements concluded so far must be implemented consistently, and that this requires the eu to continue to play an active role, because only in this way can real peace be achieved.
madam president, i very much appreciate the efforts made by the european institutions in dealing with the humanitarian situation in yemen. however, i consider it very unfortunate that we are only spectators of the rivalry between iran and saudi arabia in the region. i think that would not only be unfortunate given the role and the funding that we have already sent to these areas as the european union, but it would also be very shameful in relation to the civilian population. so at a time when saudi arabia is positioning itself for such a long time as, say, a player in military coalitions, but also a partner of the united states and the european union, i think we should be talking to both saudi arabia and, of course, now iran, about not making this region their own firing range. this would be appropriate in view of the position of the european union and, of course, to protect the civilian population.
madam president, i think we can all agree that turkey is a strategic partner for the european union. but we also expect that it is a bilateral relationship and that the european union is respected by turkey and that turkey will not abuse this situation to advance its unilateral political interests. and yet, at this very moment, he is attacking the population and taking advantage of the situation. i am very disturbed by the reply given by ambassador yenel to the members of the delegation to the eu-turkey joint parliamentary committee half an hour ago. he stated that the military intervention in the southeast of turkey was legitimate and necessary. i think that's unacceptable. i expect the european commission to speak out and to oppose this attack on civilians in southeastern turkey.
madam president, our group has drawn up a motion for a resolution on this subject, which i supported. in this proposal we have pointed out the significant shortcomings in the european union's policy towards the three countries we are debating today. perhaps the most serious mistake is, and the debate shows, that the commission, despite its experience, does not take into account the historical links that have been established in this territory, including with russia. in ukraine, moldova and georgia, we see that the reforms that are necessary for the very survival and economic and social development of these countries, a stable legal environment, are not being implemented even with large investments from the european union. the question is, who stole the investments from the elites that were there and that we supported? we must be aware that by our decision we are taking responsibility for the fate of over 40 million people. without russia, this project will be doomed to failure.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's resolution concerns developments in the three countries with which the european union has concluded association agreements, namely ukraine, moldova and georgia. let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that these three countries have one more common denominator. parts of the territory of all these countries are occupied by the russian federation. as shadow rapporteur for the association agreement with georgia, i very much appreciate the efforts of that country in implementing it, although our resolution is not without criticism regarding the danger of jeopardising freedom of expression and selective justice. we stress that the existence of political opposition is crucial for a balanced and mature political system, and we stress that any act of violence against members of any political party should be immediately and thoroughly investigated. for me personally, it is unacceptable that some members of the opposition remain in prison. the political climate needs to be improved, confrontation and polarization removed and dialogue ensured across the parties in order to strengthen democracy and the rule of law. i would also like to point out that the new georgian prime minister, giorgi kvirikashvili, called for an end to polarization and stressed that his cabinet is open to cooperation with all political groups in parliament. there is no doubt that democratic georgia belongs to the european union.
colleagues, we are debating the agreement between the european union and ukraine. we forget that this treaty has not yet been ratified. a referendum on the agreement will soon be held in the netherlands, and polls show that the dutch will reject the agreement. why would you do that? because they have a very high-minded european union policy that leads to one disaster after another. let's remember that this deal was the catalyst for the coup in ukraine and the ensuing conflict. so when the dutch reject this deal, we have a chance to renegotiate this deal and make it better. and i propose that this agreement really be about free trade, not to drive a wedge into ukrainian society, into moldovan society, not to complicate these countries' trade relations with russia, not to impose on these countries all our senseless regulations and regulations. then there can be harmonious trade between us and ukraine and we won't bring any more conflict to these countries.
madam president, i am very pleased that we can discuss today the resolutions on ukraine, georgia and moldova in their efforts to deepen cooperation with the european union. it is important to say that this is an endeavor they have chosen freely and that no one has forced upon them. the european parliament has already shown its willingness to support not only the governments of these countries but also civil society in all its forms. so, the assistance is not just in the economic area, because that is where we can best support civil society by ensuring the free flow of information and free dialogue. i am therefore pleased and i would like to thank the european commission and in particular mrs mogherini for the stratcom unit which is trying to combat the propaganda of the current russian regime. i am convinced that these efforts should be maintained and developed further, and i hope that the commission will do so.
mr president, i think that this debate has shown that this is indeed a subject which deserves our full attention. i would like to point out in my speech that religious minorities are not only deprived of the opportunity to lead a satisfactory life, but in many places they are deprived of the opportunity to lead their own existence, to live their own lives. for example, christians in china are facing severe discrimination. and it's also not to be dismissed that the jews in europe are very uncomfortable. the fact that information is coming out that jews are leaving europe is not a good business card either. but nowhere is the nature of these interventions in the lives of religious minorities so obvious and of such genocidal character as in the territory controlled by da'esh. i am convinced that the violence that is done to the victims for their religious beliefs, we all reject here, it came out of the discussion. and i would like to highlight the model that our civilization has worked towards, which is tolerance, non-discrimination, the possibility of peaceful coexistence of religiously different cultures. in the name of these principles, but also in the interest of international justice, we must condemn what is happening in the middle east, but not only that, we should consistently support the continuation and deepening of action by the international community. if it helps to label the atrocities committed by daesh as genocide, then that label has my support.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, terrorism has spread into our lives, values, societies and our way of living. the scope of the threat is broad and thus requires a european response in close cooperation with our partners around the world. a european riposte to the asymmetric war should focus in my view on the following issues: terrorism financing, internal and external security, and the root causes of terrorism. we must adapt our legislation to better prevent and track terrorism financing. it is not expensive to conduct attacks such as those in paris. we need tighter rules on tools like prepaid cards and stricter anti-money-laundering rules. regarding isis there are some ten sources of its financing. we must strangle them all, starting with oil trafficking. europe cannot be insecure. we must reinforce security measures at all levels, from local to eu-wide. of course they should be effective but not excessive. at european level, cooperation between member states, their police and other law enforcement services is the key. we must not repeat the mistakes of the past. at the same time, we must better protect and control our external borders. the alert is high. it is crucial that all our border and coast guards and police know who enters and leaves europe. external border control is also the best way to fight arms trafficking effectively and limit terrorists’ access to arms. there is, however, a long-term task. many radicalised people were born and raised in europe and some then became foreign fighters and some conducted attacks against their own country. teams with expertise and on-the-ground experience should develop integration projects which local authorities should then implement.
mr president, i believe that our response to terrorist attacks must be, in any case, considerate, but also decisive and consistent. i would urge that before we introduce new standards into our legal system, we should check whether the existing ones are no longer sufficient. for example, i asked the czech minister of the interior how information is exchanged between countries, and he told me that there are a number of problems. moreover, the repeated and repeated counts of refugees by frontex are proof of this. i think that above all we must not remain inactive, because inaction is a win for terrorists who are enemies of democracy, of our societies, of our christian-jewish roots. but the inaction and inconsistency also rewards the populists and extremists of our societies, who, along with the terrorists, condemn liberal democracy and the european union. i am 100% convinced that today is the day we must defend our union of values, however difficult and however politically unfavourable that may seem in the short term. i have no doubt that in the long run, we will defend these values, because bigotry, prejudice, hatred and terrorism will never defeat a free man. they may bring us to our knees, but they will not break our values, because they are tested and proven in history. as it turns out, populist and extremist political forces in europe are getting financial support from russia. i think this is a moment we should not overlook. we should also be firm on this issue here and i am a little sorry that we did not take the opportunity to call on the commission to look into this matter. and by the way, this is an investigation that's being done by the united states congress, and i think we should get back to that. the main enemy of the current russian leaders is not isis, chechen radicals or ukrainians. russia's main enemy is our common unity of europe.
madam president, the european union is lagging behind in the conclusion of free trade agreements, particularly with regard to the asia-pacific region. the united states is ahead of us, they have a big tpp framework agreement with a whole bunch of countries. we have a bilateral agreement with vietnam today, which is pending ratification, and it will take a few years, two or three years; we have a deal with singapore that's frozen pending a ruling by the european court of justice. otherwise, we have nothing. so it's in our very best interest to open up the possibility of entering new markets. australia and new zealand have been interested for a long time and have made it clear, and i think it's high time that we started these negotiations, that this barrier of silence has to be broken. i therefore welcome this activity and hope that it will lead to a rapid and mutually acceptable outcome.
member of the commission.– madam president, let me reiterate the commission’s intention to take the next steps towards launching negotiations for the free trade agreements with australia and new zealand. in doing so, the commission will follow the relevant rules and practices, prepare the appropriate impact assessment and take the other preparatory steps, such as scoping exercises, so as to be in a position to request authorisation from the council to formally launch these free trade agreement negotiations. the commission has set out its new approach to trade policy issues in the trade for all communication of last october. the communication sets out our commitment to, and the approach we will propose for, key issues such as trade and sustainable development, including labour and environmental issues, for public services and for investment dispute resolution. so the approach we will take to the prospective free trade agreements with australia and new zealand has been clearly set out and this is what we will seek to put in place through these negotiations. as in other negotiations, the commission is strongly committed to ensuring the transparency of the negotiations, and in particular information, analysis and dialogue with the european parliament will underpin and steer our work.
in writing.– i would like to thank the commissioner for providing us with some elements concerning the preparation of a free-trade agreement between the eu and australia and new zealand. since the publication of the commission’s new trade and investment strategy in which the strengthening of these relationships is considered a priority, there has been a positive drive towards the real start of the negotiations. having said that, one must wonder why it took us so long to engage in this direction. the eu has negotiated or started to negotiate agreements with all key trade partners but these two and this despite the fact that australia and new zealand are, except for geographically, our very close allies not only in bilateral trade, but also in multilateral trade agenda. the eu is australia’s number one trade partner and key source of foreign investments too. however, the australian government managed to forge deals with the us and canada under the tpp arrangement and with china much earlier than with us. i believe that, reflecting this context, it should be a priority for this year to initiate the scoping exercise with these two countries and show we mean it seriously.
mr. president, the right of nations to self-determination is one of the fundamental rights enshrined in the un charter and other un general assembly resolutions. by the way, even then, at the instigation of the soviet union, that is to say, of the state which now denies the right of self-determination and the freedom of new nations. i have supported this association agreement because i believe that kosovo is a state, fulfilling all the characteristics of a state, although of course the exercise of that state power raises doubts to some extent on some issues, i will not deny that. but i do not want to argue with my hungarian colleague, mrs morvai, but i think that it is hungary and other countries that should be interested in stabilising kosovo and its integration into europe, in finding a stable future for it. i think that's the security of us and our entire continent. in this respect, i fully support the view expressed by my predecessor, mr sógor.
in writing. - i voted against it. there is already virtually duty-free trade with kosovo. but an association agreement should not be concluded if not all eu countries recognise kosovo as a state.
in writing. - i am convinced that enhanced political dialogue and closer trade integration will help kosovo in its approach to introducing and implementing the necessary reforms and create a more favourable environment for business development and public administration. the european union will then also benefit from the stabilisation and development of kosovo. the european parliament's consent will allow the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement, which has already been signed by both parties, i.e. the representatives of the european union and kosovo. the development of contractual relations and the application of the measures contained in this agreement may thus be initiated. this is particularly the case with respect for and strengthening of the principles of democracy and human rights, cooperation in the fight against crime, and professional cooperation in areas such as energy, the environment, education or culture. i think that the recognition of the republic of kosovo by the other five member states would be very helpful in terms of normalising relations between pristina and belgrade. it should be in our interest to see the whole region stabilized as much as possible.
in writing. ‒ i approved the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo. by voting this text parliament welcomes the deepening of relations between kosovo and the eu. indeed, this agreement is a very important first formal step towards the eu accession process and the european integration path for the republic of kosovo.
in writing. ‒ by endorsing this text, parliament appointed the 45 members of the special committee of inquiry into car makers’ breaches of eu rules on car emissions. the decision to set up this committee was taken after the volkswagen scandal. it is clear that something went wrong and we need to find out why. we also need to investigate alleged failures by eu member states as well as the commission to enforce eu standards. i hope this committee will be able to give us some answers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of the members of the committee of inquiry. the committee will last 12 months, to investigate alleged contraventions of european union law and alleged maladministration in the application of european union law that led to the recent ‘diesel gate’ scandal. in particular, the inquiry will investigate why so called ‘defeat devices'’ were permitted to be installed in millions of cars, why the commission and member states failed to comply with the obligation to enforce eu emissions legislation and why tests reflecting real-world driving conditions were not introduced in a timely manner. the alde group pushed for the setting up of this committee and will have four full members: dita charanzova mep (ano cz), fredrick federley mep (centre party, se), gerben-jan gerbrandy (d66, nl) and dominique riquet (parti radical -udi, fr); and four substitute members: philippe de backer mep (open vld, be), robert rochefort mep (modem, fr), nils torvalds (svenska folkpartiet, fi) and gesine meissner (fdp,de).
mr president, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the association agreements with moldova, georgia and ukraine. i did not support the proposals of the communist parties which question the democratically elected government of ukraine and the direction of ukraine towards the european union. i regret that i was unable to take the floor in the debate yesterday to thank the european commission. it is not often, but this time i was very pleased to see the european commission and commissioner hahn in particular taking an active approach to visa liberalisation, particularly in relation to ukraine. i know that in ukraine, there is a lot of expectation, support and such an impetus for more energy for the reforms that ukraine is carrying out, associated with this promise of visa liberalization. i would like to thank the commission and the commissioner in particular.
mr president, i should like to say on the side that i voted in favour of this economic agreement, and indeed it is the economic and financial issues that are linked to these association agreements. i don't want to question the rights of national minorities, i think we should continue to monitor them, but these agreements are much more than that. on the other hand, to teach us how another state should be organised in terms of autonomy, i think that does not belong in this chamber. but as far as kosovo and moldova are concerned, i have my doubts about moldova, because even in the light of recent events - i quote my colleague mrs pospillah - the question is whether we will become victims or spectators of developments in which russian oligarchs are playing the game in kosovo and moldova, controlling both part of the governing coalition and, undoubtedly, part of the opposition. i think this is a very dangerous development, and we should pay proper attention to it.
in writing. - i voted against it. the resolution calls for ratification by the country, thus interfering in the internal affairs of the states. the deal with ukraine itself is poorly written and subverting ukrainian society. if the deal is rejected by referendum in the netherlands, a better deal should be negotiated that is truly free trade.
in writing. i supported the resolution assessing the first year of the association agreements. on the one hand, the progress made in reform in all three countries should be highlighted, but on the other hand, the shortcomings and weaknesses that persist in them cannot be ignored. while ukraine continues to face rampant corruption, georgia has a tendency to slip into russia's sphere of influence and moldova has little success in escaping political instability. however, i am confident that despite the ongoing difficulties, all three partner countries are on the right track towards the eu and with our strong support, they will be able to persevere on this path.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the association agreements and deep and comprehensive free trade area agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine, which are necessary for their full implementation. these agreements will bring about political and economic convergence, with financial and technical support from the european union for the implementation of far-reaching reforms. the governments of moldova, georgia and ukraine are criticized for lacking accountability for some elements of democracy such as freedom of speech, good governance and overall political stability, thus threatening the democratization of their countries. but that is no reason to stop them from integrating. on the contrary, we should open the door to them to take advantage of the offers of constructive cooperation with the european union, which will help their socialisation and modernisation. we must remember that association agreements and free trade agreements do not serve the political elites, but have a profound social dimension, as they serve the needs of the citizens by helping to raise their living standards. it is not only in our interest, but also our responsibility to pursue stability and peace in our eastern neighbourhood. that is why i also supported macro-financial assistance to ukraine in the past by deciding to confer implementing powers on the commission. these are the first steps by which the union shows that it is aware of the problems of its neighbours and is prepared to help them overcome them.
in writing. ‒ i consider this resolution to be extremely important. i am very pleased with the efforts of georgia, moldova and ukraine to ensure the approximation of their national legislation to eu standards based on the commitments under the aa/dcfta. i am convinced that parliamentary scrutiny is a fundamental condition for democratic support for eu policy and that the european parliament needs to be able to monitor the implementation of the aa/dcfta regularly and in detail. i express my unequivocal support for the territorial integrity of all three countries and stress the fact that the associated countries have freely chosen to establish deeper relations with the eu and that their choice must be fully respected, and it is important to recall that article 49 of the treaty on european union states that any european state may apply for eu membership, provided that it respects the principles of democracy, respect fundamental freedoms and human and minority rights and ensures the rule of law. i am pleased that the eu-ukraine dcfta entered into force on 1 january 2016, and i also welcome the progress in georgia, where progress has been made in all areas covered by the four blocks of the visa liberalisation action plan over the past three years. at the same time, however, i cannot but express serious concern at the de facto systemic political instability in moldova, with the threat of destabilisation of the country's institutions and the threat to the economy, which has a major impact on the flow of foreign direct investment.
in writing. the resolution concerns the implementation of the association agreements in ukraine, georgia and moldova. these three countries have one more common denominator. parts of the territory of all these countries are occupied by the russian federation. as the shadow rapporteur for the association agreement with georgia, i was also involved in the drafting of this resolution and i am very pleased that the resolution is calling things by their right names. the ep expresses its unequivocal support for the territorial integrity of all three countries and calls on the russian federation to end the occupation of crimea and to immediately cease its direct and indirect involvement in the ongoing conflict in ukraine and the frozen conflicts in georgia and moldova. the resolution also welcomes, inter alia, the council's decision to extend economic sanctions against the russian federation, calls for greater efforts to combat disinformation and mentions the east strat com working group. i voted against 17 amendments tabled by the group of the european united left, which are also signed by mr jiří maštálka, mep for the ksčm. the proposals, for example, criticize the banning of the communist party of ukraine or condemn the expansion of nato. the communist amendments also called for the eu to end its sanctions policy against russia. i am grateful that all these amendments have been rejected, because i am of the opposite opinion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which highlights the progress made by ukraine, moldova and georgia in implementing their association agreements and their chapters on a deep and comprehensive free-trade area with the eu. with this text we also remind georgia, moldova and ukraine of the need for them to be determined in their pursuit of their respective reform programmes, in particular in the areas of justice and the rule of law, and in tackling corruption and organised crime. the socioeconomic development of the three countries is heavily dependent on the progress made in these areas. finally we called on russia to end its direct or indirect involvement in conflicts in the three countries and its interference with their eu aspirations.
in writing. ‒ i support this agreement because it is necessary to continue to support the rapprochement of georgia, moldova and ukraine with the european union. all three countries face similar challenges, such as territorial integrity, pressure to implement political, social and administrative reforms. i agree that successful implementation of the association agreement can only occur if there is a stable political environment in the countries, clear plans for trade policy reform, an institutional set-up with a clear division of powers and other elements that are natural to stable democratic states.
in writing. ‒ the mutual defence clause was invoked for the first time by france in november after the paris attacks, in order to formally ask its european partners’ support in its war against isis. i highly welcome the unanimous support given to france, but i believe that more must be done. we have reached the moment when the member states can no longer count solely on bilateral support and must now reinforce their capabilities and effectively protect europe from the increased terrorism threat. we need more cooperation between member states’ police and intelligence services on the movement of weapons and terrorist suspects in order not to repeat the mistakes of the past.
in writing. - i voted against it. this is a step towards a european army. the eu points to the example of migration quotas, which shows that joint decision-making is a risk for the czech republic.
in writing. ‒ the unprecedented terrorist attacks in paris have challenged the eu to find new ways to ensure the safety of its citizens. the willingness to cooperate is essential even where member states traditionally do not share information and take joint action, such as in the military or intelligence field. in this respect, i also welcomed the position of france, which was the first member state in history to initiate the activation of the mutual defence clause, thus creating the opportunity for closer and more coordinated action by member states in areas crucial to the effective fight against terrorism. it will be up to them to seize this opportunity for the benefit of eu citizens.
in writing. the series of terrorist attacks that took place in france in 2015 culminated in november of that year in paris. following these attacks, france formally invoked the principle of mutual defence enshrined in article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union. in this context, the european parliament adopted a resolution confirming the european union's willingness to meet its mutual defence commitments and proposing several instruments to strengthen mutual defence at european level. i have long been one of those who have called for the strengthening of european mutual defence instruments. unfortunately, the situation around the eu's borders has deteriorated and so we need to strengthen its hard power. we cannot pretend that our security is guaranteed by nato alone. i therefore agree with the need for a greater and really effective exchange of information between european intelligence services and the creation of european command structures. it would not be a replacement or a limitation of nato, on the contrary, all these defence initiatives should be closely coordinated with nato. the czech republic is undoubtedly ready to meet its commitments in the framework of common european defence. as one of the few member states to provide specialists and material to contribute to the common european defence, also during the current migration crisis.
in writing. the whole of the european union is facing an unprecedented threat of violence and terrorism and it is the duty of all member states to address this threat. france has been the victim of a reprehensible attack of unprecedented scale and, under the treaty of lisbon, article 42 teu, which contains aid to the member state concerned, has been activated. member states must cooperate with each other on counter-terrorism and terrorist threat prevention and seek to implement practical solutions in their legal frameworks. the eu faces big challenges this year and this clause contains many steps we should take to prevent any further threats.
in writing. ‒ i was very pleased to support the motion for a resolution on article 42 (7) in response to the terrorist attacks in paris. implementing article 42 (7) which guarantees aid and cooperation to our french allies who rightly feel threatened is our moral obligation. but it is important to remember that these terrorist attacks were not just an attack on france or the people of paris, but were intended as an aggression against the whole of the european union and the ideals of liberal democracy; the indirect targets of the terrorists were therefore all those who identified with european culture and civilization. it is therefore essential to respond with a single european voice. this proposal is also important because it sets a precedent for the future eu's common foreign and security policy. one of the reasons for the success of these terrorist attacks was the fact that european intelligence and security services were not able to cooperate and coordinate effectively. the common security policy will not compete with or replace nato structures; the aim of the new regulation is to improve and deepen cooperation between the defence forces of the member states. by working together across the eu, we will be better able to confront a bloodthirsty enemy like the islamic state, and we will be better able to stand up to russian aggression or to tackle the complex challenges of the refugee crisis.
in writing. i supported today's resolution on the mutual defence clause (article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union) as the right response to the impulse given by the french government to invoke this clause after the terrorist attacks of november last year. the french government was the first government ever to do so and it has been shown that there is no established or basic procedure for responding to the application of this clause and that the consequent measures are taken ad hoc. the french call is thus intended to provide an impetus for the development of the potential of all the provisions of the treaties relating to security and defence, which can gradually create a more unified approach for the union in these areas. in the meantime, however, there is a need to strengthen the intelligence sharing and operational cooperation between the national security services responsible for advancing the security and defence of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it draws attention to the fact that for the first time the mutual defence clause (article 42(7) of the treaty of the european union) was invoked but regrets that the application of article 42(7) teu has not been efficiently managed so far. it calls on the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, the european council and the european commission to clarify the relevant union means and procedures within the scope of the mutual defence clause (article 42(7)). i also believe that the activation of the mutual defence clause is a singular opportunity to establish the grounds for a strong and sustainable european security and defence
mr president, let me explain briefly why i did not vote for the european parliament's opinion on the priorities for the un human rights council. the motion for a resolution contains provisions which are contrary to my conscience. you can't impose and recommend to all countries, to all people, an ultra-liberal attitude to ethical values, such as access to sexual and reproductive health services, that makes abortion the solution to infant and maternal mortality. i voted to drop those provisions, but unfortunately we were in the minority. as a minority, they were against labeling israeli settlements as illegal and undermining the viability of the two-state solution, the peace process. these are false solutions and i cannot accept them, which is why i did not support the resolution as a whole, because i do not accept them.
in writing. ‒ the i am against the resolution because it blames the current wave of migration on the earth's climate and it is unduly interfering in the israeli-palestinian conflict, it calls for the institution of registered partnerships to be applied in the world, but that should be left to the individual countries.
in writing. the un human rights committee is an organization that is criticized from perhaps every angle, which is certainly one of the indicators that it is doing its job well. one of the most important guidelines for the un human rights committee is also the european parliament's resolution on the matter, which represents the ep's priorities in the field of human rights protection in the world. i voted for the resolution without reservation. however, i abstained on the question of creating humanitarian corridors for refugees to eu countries. at this point, it is not clear what is meant by the much-debated establishment of humanitarian corridors. on the one hand, it can be an effective tool to facilitate the escape of people from war-threatened areas, and on the other hand it can be a 'highway' to europe rather than the intended catalyst of economic migration. this would ultimately make the situation worse for those refugees who are actually fleeing for their lives. i certainly welcome the mention of the need to define climate refugees. there is no doubt that ongoing climate change is threatening many central africans, and they are moving toward more climate-friendly areas. in view of the potential mass nature of this movement, it is necessary to prepare and develop an appropriate legal framework for climate migration now.
in writing. ‒ the current complex international situation brings an unprecedented number of human rights challenges that require clear responses and a truly global and functional system to combat human rights violations. as a social democrat, i believe that the members of the unhrc should be elected from among states that respect human rights and the principles of the rule of law and democracy. i am also concerned that some countries have adopted constitutional amendments aimed at changing the time limit for the exercise of the office of president. among the most important issues addressed by the resolution are the rise of extreme poverty, the eu's zero tolerance for the death penalty, the need for a human rights-based approach to migration and the introduction of measures to strengthen women's leadership and participation at all levels of decision-making. in conclusion, i would like to note that, contrary to the general belief, there are clearly positive developments in most of the countries under the grc.
in writing. ‒ i do not fully support the european union's proposed priorities for the human rights council. i abstained, however, despite some reservations. the member states of the european union are committed to the values of democracy, civil liberties and the rule of law, and we should therefore coordinate our actions on the basis of a much larger body such as the united nations. i welcome the effort to promote civil and political rights, religious freedom in those countries where these values are trampled on. on the other hand, i would like to express reservations about the part concerning the middle east peace process. i don't agree with the unilateral condemnation of israel and the labeling of israeli settlements as illegal. the israeli-palestinian conflict is not black and white, and the european union should approach such complex issues with caution, considering both sides, and not condemning the actions of just one of them. the main priority is to promote dialogue between the parties, as it is the local representatives who have to sit down at the negotiating table and reach a common agreement. external condemnation of one actor will not contribute to this process.
in writing. on the european parliament's resolution on the priorities for the un human rights council, i decided, like the majority of my colleagues in the ppe group, to vote against. unfortunately, the draft resolution contains contradictory provisions and i cannot therefore agree with the final version. on the one hand, the emphasis is on achieving a viable two-state solution, while on the other hand, this idea is generally countered by the mere assertion that israeli settlements are illegal under international law. the situation in the middle east has been very serious for decades. as a seasoned reporter from war zones, i know very well that achieving a peace process between two countries always requires years of hard work on both sides, along with balanced cooperation and the help of supranational institutions. if such supranational institutions are to help the parties to the conflict in the peace process to find a bilateral solution, they should themselves act and act impartially. this should be borne in mind by the european parliament and the council, whose conclusions are invoked in the resolution, when formulating their opinions. in this context, i must condemn the attempts to change the resolution by disparaging the bilateral solution and introducing unilateral provocative provisions, and i firmly hope that the european parliament will learn from this situation in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. yearly, and ahead of the participation of parliament’s committee on human rights delegation in the march un human rights council session, parliament adopts a resolution concerning the eu priorities for the unhrc sessions. the resolution strongly condemned the continued harassment and detention of human rights defenders and opposition figures by government forces. the resolution specifically referenced the kingdom of saudi arabia, raising great concern over this gulf kingdom’s ‘systematic violation of human rights’. the ep resolution also reaffirmed its ‘zero tolerance policy’, on the death penalty and supported continued efforts to establish a global moratorium on this practice.
‒ human rights are inalienable and i consider their observance, regardless of race, religion or origin, to be automatic in all states. it is in the light of the ongoing humanitarian and migration crisis that it is necessary to monitor the respect of human rights, especially for disadvantaged groups such as women and children. i am in favour of stepping up support by the member states of the union in the fight against trafficking in human beings and of putting greater emphasis on the protection of minors and children. i believe that it is necessary to share best practices among states in breaking up very well-organized networks of traffickers. i also agree with the other motions for resolutions tabled by the ppe group, such as the need to respect political, social and economic rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as there are parts related to the ttip negotiations which do not reflect the approach adopted by the commission during these negotiations. the text adopted reiterates concerns which are not based on the real state of play of the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it calls for increased administrative expenditure and interferes in the affairs of individual states by condemning the fact that not all states (poland, uk) have adopted the eu charter of fundamental rights. it must be the right of the nation state not to join any treaty.
in writing. ‒ the petitions committee is essential to ensure the link between eu citizens and the eu institutions. according to the treaties, all european citizens have the right to write to the european parliament on the various types of problems they encounter in their everyday lives, as long as the issues fall within the field of activity of the european union. in this respect, the work of this committee is extremely important, and the work achieved there is of high quality. having said that, i decided to oppose this report of the plenary as some of the wording, especially on ttip, did not reflect my views on the topic. i believe that ttip is an important opportunity for europe to have more clout on the world stage.
i am convinced, mr president, that in the light of all the information already available, the citizens and sailors in question did not represent a threat to india and that in the course of those months, and indeed years, this matter could have been settled long ago. and that's why i find india's actions totally unacceptable. and to some extent it contrasts with the way the european union is going. i would remind you that between 2010 and 2013, the european union allocated eur 470 million to india for development assistance focusing on health, education and implementation of the objectives of the joint action plan. given india's approach so far, i think we should reassess our approach as well. i am firmly convinced that we should not support, even materially, regimes that treat european citizens so shamefully.
mr president, i am convinced, as are my colleagues, that the repression of the civilian population, of political prisoners, of journalists, the general poverty, is not a good thing for the ethiopian government and has many other consequences for our continent. the refugee crisis is perhaps the culmination of these problems, and i think it would be appropriate to remind the ethiopian government very strongly that it should be a government of a democratic state and that the days of the ethiopian empire may have long since passed. i would very much like to hear a voice here today, which i think is coming from all of us here, that these actions by the ethiopian government are definitely not supported by us and should be reflected in our development aid.
mr. chairman, the situation in north korea is very serious. i personally visited north korea ten years ago with a delegation from the czech house of representatives. and i saw an authoritarian regime that lies to its own citizens and closes itself off from the world. unfortunately, nothing has changed since then, as the un commission of inquiry found in 2014. it is very sad that the people of north korea continue to suffer from hunger while their government funds research and production of nuclear weapons and security services to monitor and persecute their own citizens. disarmament, nuclear disarmament and respect for human rights are being blocked by north korea. and i have to say, this is a beautiful country with natural resources and talented people, and it could be as rich, as developed as south korea, which is not giving up hope of connecting. for my colleague scholz, the solution is not in the hands of south korea, the solution is in the hands of the authoritarian government of north korea. south korea is closely watching north korea's development and also has the best understanding of how to influence its development. i therefore recommend, and the european parliament resolution also mentions this, that the european commission should draw on the expertise of south korea, which has this expertise, in developing the european union's strategy. so in the face of north korea's closure, i think it's very important that we address this situation.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, north korea is the urgency that never ends: every month there is another report of a new person unjustly imprisoned, another execution of some top government official or more reports of common korean citizens dying from unnecessary hunger in order to feed a military machine. to say that north korea is a kafkaesque state is an extreme understatement. from announcing that they had an h-bomb two weeks ago, i understand that the big announcement this week is that they had cured hangovers. based on what we have seen, i believe it would be pointless for me to ask the north korea regime to do anything. instead, let me call on china to end its support for this regime. supporting north korea is a drain on the chinese economy, a waste of its natural resources and a shame on chinese honour. the days of the cold war are over. supporting this regime does a disservice to both regional and chinese security. only a united korea at peace can finally bring security to northeast asia.
mr president, i would like to emphasise that the human rights abuses in north korea are being perpetrated by the communist regime. i repeat, this is a communist regime, a regime that threatens not only the korean peninsula, but the future of democracy in the world, including europe. i warn you, ladies and gentlemen, that the communists are trying to internationalize communism. for example, the communist party of bohemia and moravia makes no secret of its ambition to become the frontman of the international communist movement and to create something like a new communist international. their strong partner is the north korean communists, who regularly attend the international communist talks in prague.
mr president, commissioner, as you are aware, the question of whether china should be granted market economy status is being discussed in all the member states, including the czech republic. as you yourself have stated, this is not just a legal issue, it is an issue that will have economic implications, and that is why i am glad that you are giving it the attention it deserves. the information about some of the impacts that you released last week and that you're going to present to the trade ministers is an important input into this debate. but you know, other associations are working with different numbers, so i think it would be good to shed some light on this debate and perhaps come up with a deeper impact study. in general, i think it is absolutely essential to draw up and present a plan for what the european union can do if china were to be granted market economy status and what effective instruments we could then use to protect the problematic sectors that would face unfair competition.
mr president, i think the commissioner could have heard in this debate that she has great support for the european commission to use the coming period to prepare measures to protect the european market from chinese dumping. what really surprises me is the situation that has been established here. the commissioner has made it clear that china is not a market economy, and yet it seems that it is not possible to prevent china from being recognised as a market economy within a year, just because a period of 15 years has elapsed. and i wonder what this 15 year period was all about when it was not really going to be used for anything. commissioner, i think that the european market must be protected, i think we all see the danger of social repercussions, but i think that other legal instruments must also be used to prevent this absurd situation from occurring, and you have our full support.
in writing. europe is facing a crisis. it's a curious paradox. unlike others, this crisis is not a media story, a policy priority or a subject of crisis meetings in the eu member states. this is a crisis of unprecedented proportions, which could threaten one in six jobs in the eu. yet it is not part of juncker's vision of a europe that is primarily about growth and jobs. experts agree on the negative impacts europe will have to face, but european governments do not attach particular importance to the problem and implement existing legislation only to a very limited extent. the crisis is also felt by europeans themselves: 80% consider its impact to be very serious and more than 500 000 responded to the crisis consultation. who or what is in danger? nature, specifically its biodiversity. it is no secret that the european union is unable to meet its own biodiversity targets either. the strategy to 2010 has clearly failed and current trends clearly show that we are heading for a completely identical situation in 2020. without proper implementation of existing legislation, in particular the nature protection directives and the invasive alien species regulations, the situation cannot be expected to improve in the coming years. the protection of biodiversity must become a political priority.
madam president, the notorious norwegian social service barnevernet continues to apply its ruthless approach to families coming from several member states of the european union, including the czech republic, slovakia and romania. more and more cases of children being taken away for questionable reasons are emerging, and many people are asking how this is possible in civilized norway, in this democratic country. i am glad that people are not indifferent to this injustice and that in recent weeks there have been demonstrations in many places in the countries of the european union and around the world against the practices of barnevernet. eu citizens must now say a clear 'no' to unwarranted interference in family affairs, as the european commission should say, commissioner.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. undeclared work is a problem primarily of the member states, but it is also a problem of the union as a whole. unfortunately, the volume of undeclared work is increasing, the czech republic has not avoided this trend either, and we are already at around 19% of the volume of undeclared work, which is of course a phenomenon that we cannot like, and therefore the czech republic will certainly also participate in this common platform, which does not mean increased regulation, but a very good opportunity to share examples of good work and find practices that will allow member states to effectively combat this trend, which of course damages the labour market, employers and also employees. the efficiency and the minimum cost that will be spent on this platform is important.
mr president, the problems highlighted in luxleaks or disclosed by google’s tax deal with the uk will not disappear on their own. we need to act. furthermore, fair taxation protecting those who are not avoiding taxes will not appear out of the blue. those who understand the agenda are well aware that we need more coordination and more cooperation, and we need to agree on mutual functional rules. there is no country—by—country solution in this case. that is why i welcome the commission’s initiative, which is based on a clear agenda highlighted by the oecd beps project, the commission’s action plan and also work by parliament. you are proposing the implementation of some key beps recommendations, and you have my support. i hope we will soon also get the support of the finance ministers in the council. but this is just the beginning. we need to implement all the beps sections, and we need to fight for implementation, not only in the eu but also globally. secondly, there is a list of specific eu recommendations, such as improving the function of codes of conduct, better measurement of the tax gaps or increasing transparency. last but not least, the ccctb project is very important. this is not just to improve the possibility of collecting taxes but also to create a better environment for companies operating in europe. i believe you can count on the support of most of the members of this parliament. i hope we will succeed and make the tax system in europe better.
commissioner, you say that tax competition is bad, but i say that high taxes are bad, and tax competition protects taxpayers from endlessly high taxes. in switzerland, for example, taxpayers are protected by the constitution, which does not allow them to raise taxes above a certain threshold, but the only protection for the european taxpayer is tax competition. you talk about aggressive tax practices, but i think the aggressive thing is your attempt to suppress tax competition. you say, commissioner moscovici, that you want to bring about a taxation revolution, but you have no right to this revolution, the treaties do not give the european union the right to harmonise direct taxes, and you refer to article 115 of the treaty, but that is about the internal market and not about taxes. i think your only goal is to use various tricks to transfer some of the taxes from countries with lower taxes to your treasury, and i would rather advise you in france, if you are bothered by the fact that companies are leaving you because of high taxes, to reduce taxes and start saving and not forcing us to pay high taxes.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders. the commission’s proposal in question consists in a mere codification of the already existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. the document adopted was purely technical, but i would like to use this space to explain my position and support the maintenance of the schengen area as we know it, or at least as we have known it until recently. the schengen area represents one of the greatest achievements of european integration, a symbol of a united europe, a privilege we take for granted. however, this is now in jeopardy if the european states do not find a common solution and the closure of the union's internal borders continues, as has already happened in the case of several states. we face pressing issues that we must address together. how do we set up a system to take in refugees from war-torn countries? how can we help the countries most affected by the refugee crisis? how can we protect the external borders of the schengen area more effectively, without having to close internal borders? migration crisis management and schengen are linked vessels. they have a profound social and financial impact. if we want to finance our asylum policy, which is very expensive, we cannot afford to lose billions of euros that we will lose by restricting movement at internal borders. i expect european leaders to make their decisions after a thorough consideration of all aspects and to pay more attention than has been done so far to the complex functioning of schengen and its impact.
in writing. i support the proposal for a codified version of the european union code on the rules governing the crossborder movement of persons. the advisory group consisting of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission did not propose any substantial revision of the code and, as mentioned in the relevant opinion, the advisory group came to the unanimous conclusion that the proposal in question is a mere codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. i supported today's legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a union code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code). these are not new rules, but merely a codification of the current version of the schengen borders code, which was established as early as 2006 and has been amended several times since then. in particular, the mechanism for evaluating the implementation of the external border control by each member state has been modified recently, as have the rules for the introduction of temporary checks at internal borders.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders: the changes proposed by the commission were studied by the european parliament’s legal service; they purely consist in a codification of existing texts and do not foresee any change of the content. a new recital is inserted, based on already existing provisions, recalling the importance of managing movement of persons at eu level, in accordance with the principles of necessity and proportionality.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because i believe it is important that european union law is clear and understandable. the various provisions relating to the schengen area have changed considerably over time and new documents have been drawn up. i therefore welcome the codification which will result in a single document of a coherent nature. in the current refugee crisis, it is of the utmost importance that member states are clear about the powers and tools that the schengen documents offer them and that they can use.
in writing. - i got held up. i believe in the need to protect the atmosphere from toxic emissions. but there is already a consensus among the member states in the council, and individual countries can set their own emission limits. it is therefore not necessary to have a further directive on this.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of amending the 1998 heavy metal protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution because of the serious danger posed by dangerous air pollutants that can travel up to several thousand kilometres before being deposited. this has been confirmed by several studies and once again supports the view that pollution must be tackled on a global scale. if we don't start to address this problem as soon as possible, we're going to be dealing with very serious consequences. as the amendment is fully in line with existing eu legislation, i see no reason not to support it. the ratification of the amendment will be a significant step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on heavy metals. the convention aims at reducing air pollutant emissions and was amended by eight protocols. the 1998 protocol on heavy metals has an implication for the steel and non-ferrous metal industries. the eu legislation is already fully compliant with the amendments to the 1998 protocol which, in particular, set stricter values for dust emissions and foresee transitional arrangements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants. the convention aims at reducing air pollutant emissions and was amended by eight protocols. the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants (pops) aims at reducing those emissions and collecting information on their production and sales. eu legislation already largely covers the provisions of these amendments, which provide flexibilities for countries with an economy in transition for the application of the new limit values.
in writing. ‒ this agreement between eurojust, the european union’s judicial cooperation unit, and ukraine aims at strengthening their cooperation in criminal matters, especially in fighting organised crime and terrorism. given the current terrorism threat looming over europe, it is of great importance to me to enhance exchange of operational information with third countries. this agreement will help, for example, to accelerate or facilitate the execution of extradition and mutual legal assistance requests, to clarify legal requirements and relevant legislation. i am convinced this will enable us to fight organised crime more effectively within europe, this is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ eurojust is a tax-eating authority, devouring €32 million a year in taxes. the fight against international crime was possible before the european union and will be possible after it, without the need for euro bureaus. there is no need to add more countries to this ineffective cooperation.
in writing. i supported the approval of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine, which aims to deepen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime and corruption. i am convinced that this agreement can make a significant contribution to addressing the long-standing problem of corruption in ukraine, which is a burden both from the point of view of domestic politics and from the point of view of its rapprochement with the eu. this is a much-needed helping hand to ukraine and a testament to the strength of the bond between ukraine and the eu.
‒ in the context of war and instability, events in eastern europe have ceased to be the focus of interest for many european political elites. however, it is ukraine that is still struggling with russian aggression and separatist tendencies on the one hand, but on the other hand is going through a very complex and complex period of reform and transformation. it is the duty of the european union to assist the government and people of ukraine in the democratic and free direction of their country. one of these options is the eurojust-ukraine cooperation agreement, which has significant positive potential for both the ukrainian judiciary and pan-european cooperation. one of the cornerstones of democracy is a functioning, fair and independent rule of law and judiciary. i therefore support the efforts of the said agreement to deepen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism, as these threats are not limited to ukraine, but have a pan-european impact. i am convinced that the agreement will help cooperation between eurojust and ukraine and prevent as much as possible transnational crime, which unfortunately also affects the countries of the european union. i also acknowledge the sending of the ukrainian representative to eurojust and the future exchange of information. i support this proposal by rapporteur sylvie-yvonne kaufmann and i join the call to the council to support this proposal.
in writing. i was very happy to support the approval of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. this agreement is a key step in the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. this is judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crossborder crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. as the shadow rapporteur for this agreement, i consider this new partnership to be very important. ukraine is going through very difficult times, it's at war. he's been dealing with widespread corruption for a long time. in this context, ukraine clearly needs a stable partner to help it stay on the path of progress and reforms it has embarked on. cooperation with eurojust as an agency that enhances the effectiveness of bodies tasked with investigating serious international and organised crime is, in my view, a very positive step forward. both for ukraine and for the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption of the european parliament legislative resolution endorsing the council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the eurojust-ukraine cooperation agreement, as this cooperation further deepens the cooperation between the eu and ukraine in the field of combating organised crime and terrorism. the deepening of judicial cooperation in these areas should also be encouraged in relations with non-eu countries. i also supported the establishment of similar cooperation between eurojust and montenegro.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement to reinforce the cooperation between eurojust and ukraine. the agreement aims at increasing operational cooperation between the two, for instance through the exchange of information on organised crime and terrorism. considering the international situation there is a clear operational need to fight transnational crime jointly with ukraine and increase our judicial cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this report on the eurojust-ukraine cooperation agreement. i fully agree that it is essential for eurojust to work with ukraine to combat transnational crime and terrorism and to improve judicial cooperation. i very much welcome the detailed provisions concerning, for example, the secondment of a liaison prosecutor from ukraine and the exchange of information. only a genuinely high-quality and bilateral exchange of information can make the fight against organised crime and terrorism more effective.
in writing. ‒ this agreement between eurojust, the european union’s judicial cooperation unit, and montenegro aims at strengthening their cooperation in criminal matters, especially in fighting organised crime and terrorism. given the current terrorism threat looming over europe, it is of great importance to me to enhance exchange of operational information with third countries. this agreement will help, for example, to accelerate or facilitate the execution of extradition and mutual legal assistance requests, to clarify legal requirements and relevant legislation. i am convinced this will enable us to fight organised crime more effectively within europe; this is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ eurojust is a tax-eating authority, devouring €32 million a year in taxes. the fight against international crime was possible before the european union and will be possible after it, without the need for euro bureaus. there is no need to add more countries to this ineffective cooperation.
in writing. i supported the approval of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro, which i had studied intensively as a shadow rapporteur. i consider each new partnership in the area of judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crossborder crime to be of the utmost importance. for montenegro, as an eu candidate country, the conclusion of this agreement is a major asset, as montenegro's new and deepened contractual relations with the eu strengthen the country's integration into the eu institutional structure and also facilitate the country's preparation for eu membership itself in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement to reinforce the cooperation between eurojust and montenegro. the objective is to strengthen our operational cooperation, especially in fighting organised crime and terrorism. the international situation is such that it is of utmost importance to increase judicial cooperation with our neighbours.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because i consider the cooperation between eurojust and montenegro to be very important. the agreement will make it possible to fight international organised crime much better and also provides for better judicial cooperation. as in the case of a similar agreement with ukraine, i very much welcome the detailed provisions concerning, for example, the posting of a liaison prosecutor from montenegro and the exchange of information, including provisions on the exchange of personal data, which are proportionate. i personally believe that we can only succeed in the fight against organised crime if the strategy is comprehensive and involves as many european countries as possible.
in writing. ‒ the polish general inspectorate of road traffic accuses mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz of failing to respect the speed limit. this accusation does not impact mr. iwaszkiewicz’s capacity to perform his duty as an mep nor it is with intent to cause him political damage, therefore i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of the mep robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz.
in writing. ‒ the polish general inspectorate of road traffic accuses mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz of failing to respect the speed limit. this accusation does not intend to cause political damage to mr iwaszkiewicz. without prejudging on his guilt, i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of the mep robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz.
in writing. ‒ a french court has asked for the immunity of florian philippot to be waived for the purposes of criminal proceedings instituted by a country outside the european union. indeed florian philippot is accused by the government of a non-member state, namely qatar, of having defamed that country by suggesting, in a radio programme broadcast on 9 january 2015 and in a television programme broadcast on 19 january 2015 that qatar finances terrorism. while i oppose mr philippot’s political views and ideology, it is prohibited, under article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union and under article 26 of the french constitution, to bring any form of civil or criminal proceedings against members of parliament in respect of opinions expressed in the performance of their duties. this is the reason why i decided to vote in favour of this report and thus not to waive the immunity of florian philippot.
mr president, i am of the opinion that labour costs represent one of the competitive advantages that countries can have from one another. these advantages are derived from taxation and social issues, and that is why i support the right of the member states of the european union to assess this matter primarily in their own legislation. however, undeclared work is a real evil and it brings a lot of problems not only in the tax and pension part of the state budget, but also a lot of social problems, as my colleagues have already spoken about. for this reason, i supported the proposed report and i think it is important that eu member states work together and share information to ensure that the labour market actually meets even the minimum requirements and standards applicable in the union.
in writing. ‒ the shadow economy can have a serious impact on tax and social security systems in the member states. furthermore, it can affect, inter alia, citizens’ access to health care, parental leave or pension rights. i am supportive of and voted for the newly adopted proposal to create a platform for the eu member states and eu institutions to share best practices and to enhance cooperation to prevent and deter undeclared work. member states should fully participate in the platform which will help us to unite forces in europe to fight against undeclared work, create more formal jobs and secure higher tax revenues.
‒ states should fight black labour by reducing taxes and liberalising the labour market, not by creating additional taxpayer-funded agencies.
in writing. i supported the report on the establishment of a european platform to strengthen cooperation in preventing and deterring undeclared work. the draft council and ep decision is based on a coercive approach, involving enhanced cooperation to combat labour law violations, tax evasion and breaches of social protection requirements. in particular, the purpose of the platform is to develop a reliable and efficient system for the rapid exchange of information in addressing undeclared work and to improve the capacity of national labour inspection systems to carry out checks and to address cross-border aspects of undeclared work through measures such as joint operations, relevant databases and staff exchanges. it is therefore a support instrument complementary to existing national instruments, as the fight against illegal employment and business is a primary responsibility of the member states.
in writing. undeclared work accounts for up to 30% of gross domestic product in some eu member states. the implications for the national budgets, which subsequently finance the necessary policies, including, for example, education, infrastructure or employment, cannot therefore be underestimated. nor can the consequences of undeclared work for the perpetrators themselves be underestimated. they are often exposed to unfair conditions, low wages, and a complete lack of social security. i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of a european platform to strengthen cooperation in preventing and deterring undeclared work, as these activities of the shadow and grey economy are unacceptable to both sides. i also supported the platform to make european social partners equal partners and to involve all eu member states, because this is not a problem for a few selected countries. it concerns everyone and therefore requires a coordinated approach at european, national and regional levels. in this regard, the platform should serve as an optimal venue for the exchange of information and sharing of good practices between states. not only to boost the current relatively low economic growth but also to combat deflation, undeclared work needs to be reported as soon as possible, preferably by introducing both restrictive and proactive measures.
in writing. i supported the draft decision establishing a european platform to strengthen cooperation on the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work, as it is an important step towards addressing the range of undeclared work problems affecting millions of workers in the eu undignified to unsafe working conditions, lower wages, loss of social security or social rights in general. i consider the strength of the platform to be that it will involve a wide range of stakeholders, in particular representatives of the member states and the social partners, and will operate on the basis of the exchange of experience and best practice. i also expect the platform to become a place of enhanced cooperation in order to prepare and implement effective enforcement and support measures in the area of undeclared work.
in writing. i supported the report on the establishment of a european platform to strengthen cooperation in the prevention of undeclared work. the european parliament proposes by this resolution to amend the commission proposal at first reading. this is the creation of a coordination platform composed of representatives of the national authorities of the member states, representatives of the commission and also of a number of social partners. the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound), the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) and a representative of the international labour organisation (ilo) will also be present. i consider that enhanced cooperation between member states at eu level is necessary to enable member states to prevent undeclared work more effectively. this should be done through the exchange of best practices and information and the provision of expertise and analysis at eu level between the responsible persons and institutions. in order to make the platform effective, it is proposed that member states should be obliged to participate. i think it's important to be efficient and to have the least cost to put on this platform. undeclared work is a growing phenomenon with many causes and interconnections and has negative effects on the labour market and public budget revenues. it ultimately harms both the employer and the employee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on establishing a european platform to enhance cooperation in the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work. this report recommended the establishment of a european platform to enhance the cooperation at union level in tackling undeclared work. this mean the prevention, deterrence and combating of undeclared work as well as encouraging and promoting declared work. if properly implemented, the overriding objective of the platform shall be to provide value-added input at union level to the efforts of member states and union institutions to successfully tackle the complex problem of undeclared work and its manifold implications and consequences including encouraging and promoting declared work. the platform shall, to that end, contribute to an improvement in union and national law, help to achieve the union’s employment targets providing a more effective union framework for employment and workplace health and safety.
in writing. ‒ undeclared work is currently a very worrying problem, which is why i decided to support the report on the creation of a european platform to strengthen cooperation in preventing this phenomenon. undeclared work harms the european union's economy, leading to unfair competition and market distortions. i consider it important that experience and best practice be shared between member states in order to combat undeclared work. i fully agree with the need to involve representatives at different levels in the platform that has been created and also with the need to introduce proactive measures to accompany enforcement measures.
mr president, i also supported this draft report because diversity is not only one of the central slogans of the european union, but undoubtedly biodiversity is a fundamental value of our territory, of our continent. it is clear that the strategy has not been very successful so far, and we must realise that biodiversity is not only an economic resource, undoubtedly ecological, but that the protection of the environment and the landscape is a fundamental and essential value. biodiversity also has an undeniable social function. i am not in favour of the rule of law controlling the violation of regulations, that there are too many, we are even talking about a certain atrophy of the law. however, the environment is one of those areas that definitely deserves good regulation, because what we're leaving to future generations is the legacy, and we can fight cockroaches and rats, but it's important that future generations appreciate that legacy.
in writing. ‒ nature protection directives, such as the natura 2000 programme, are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. the protection of nature should be a matter for the member states, i do not support the creation of a new eu soil directive.
in writing. the review of the eu biodiversity strategy finds that the agreed 2020 targets are far from being met. only 23% of natural species and 16% of natural habitats are in good condition. the eu's ecological footprint is twice as large as its biological capacity. therefore, a significant additional effort is needed. i supported the points in the report which call for this effort and put forward concrete steps to be taken. the key is to find the political will to make targeted investments in nature and biodiversity.
in writing. the loss of biodiversity is one of the fundamental problems we face as a humanity today. the loss of ecosystem diversity has immeasurable effects on humans, which may not be obvious today, but they can be fatal. we talk about clean air, clean water, the availability of raw materials, and therefore health, well-being and economic prosperity. the european union is a world leader in tackling climate change, a leader in promoting green energy and the green economy, and yet it systematically fails to meet its own targets for protecting and restoring biodiversity. in 2011, the eu adopted a new strategy for the conservation of biodiversity. the review of the strategy has shown that without a fundamental change of approach at all levels of government, without greater political will not only at national level but especially at regional and local level, the 2020 targets will not be achieved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own—initiative on the midterm review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy. by doing so, i underlined together with my colleagues that unless it significantly steps up its efforts, the eu will not attain the objective it set itself to halt the loss of biodiversity and restore it as much as its services working on ecosystems can by 2020.
in writing. unfortunately, i could not support mr demesmaeker's report in the final vote because a clause was artificially inserted in it prohibiting the exploration of shale gas. i do not share the principle of precaution, which is repeatedly stated in this area. only the future, research and demand should decide whether, what and under what conditions to mine. as regards the protection of beehives, i was very pleased to support the sustainable development of this agricultural sector. where the nervous system of bees has been shown to be damaged by pesticides, these substances should be restricted as much as possible. if the point on hydraulic fracturing could be rejected, i would like to support the whole report, but unfortunately point 88 was adopted and i abstained.
‒ biodiversity, the variety of ecosystems, species and habitats, is of vital importance to humans. it provides a number of ecosystem services, such as clean air and water, that we cannot live without. that's why i decided to support this report. i agree with the challenges that are contained in the document. biodiversity is under considerable pressure in today's globalised and technological world. i believe that additional efforts by member states are more than necessary to meet the targets that the eu has committed to achieving by 2020.
mr president, if today we put a videotape of the last debate on the screen, many people would perhaps not notice the difference. it is that similar to the previous debate. and, unfortunately, we do not see the results. the minister speaks of hot spots. yes, maybe there has been a certain improvement, but i have spoken to people from the hot spots, and the current situation is still very much unacceptable. the commissioner was closer to the real situation in speaking of poor implementation. i could not agree more. poor implementation is a reality. we have made mistakes, and we have also maybe introduced certain measures at an inopportune time. maybe some of the measures were not the right ones, but it is also true that we are not implementing the decision of the council. but the same should also apply to the fact that if we want a united eu we should make sure that nobody can break ranks and speak out about any related issue without consulting their partners in the european council. so the two things have to apply. what do we need? we definitely need a united eu; we need to stop accusing one another, and we need a certain shift in policy. the alde paper refers to issues of border control – frontex – but we need rapid deployment and temporary protection. why has the directive never been used? we need a return control, and when this bears fruit, burden-sharing and shared responsibility have to apply as well.
madam president, we all agree that the uncontrolled flow of refugees into europe must end, that we must stop it, and at the same time we all know that border protection is primarily in the hands of the national states, not the european union. some people can handle it, some people can't. if the european commission wanted to do something substantial, it would have to override the budgetary rules, it would have to change the whole budget, it would have to cut funding elsewhere and it would have to direct a much larger proportion of that funding to the protection of the external borders. we all know that's not going to happen, so the only other option is to leave that protection in the hands of the nation-states. try to help them, not block their activities, not criticize those who have chosen to protect the eu's external borders, and to make it clear to those who cannot do so that they simply cannot be part of the schengen area because there is no other way. so the european commission should also, among other things, prepare some easier rules for the restoration of temporary internal borders within the eu.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, i think the european union needs to act faster because the situation in the migration crisis is not improving. i want to make three points, but very serious ones. i think that if the eu has to take care of anyone, it is children who are the most vulnerable group, and i think that we need to create a tool, create a safe environment so that unaccompanied children are placed in safe centres where they are taken care of and not left unattended on the streets. i think that's a task that frontex and other agencies can focus on immediately. the second thing is the council's deliberations and the establishment of the border and coast guard. you were invited here to discuss this matter in the council of ministers on 18 february, and i would like to ask you again if this would be a concrete step towards security, which is a precondition for the further solidarity that has been discussed here.
in writing. i have previously pointed out that the protection of our common external borders is inadequate and i therefore welcome the fact that greece and its compliance with its obligations to protect our external borders are now being examined. the way in which refugees who arrive in greece are treated, whether all procedures are followed, whether a return policy is applied or where these people are transported further, must also be checked. not only in greece, but also in italy, the eu has invested a lot of money in recent years, and i have a legitimate question to ask what this money has been used for and how it has helped to deal with the refugee situation. i am strongly in favour of greece immediately correcting any misconduct that the commission finds problematic. but if that were not enough, i want other steps to protect the eu's borders to be considered by the eu itself, to correct this failure of greece. i consider the exclusion of greece from the schengen area to be a last resort, but at the same time i do not exclude that it will not be necessary to resort to it in the event of serious errors in the correction.
commissioner, i want to thank you and i also want to apologize to the commissioner, who is in the middle of a data protection meeting and perhaps more than us, is sorry that she cannot hear this important discussion. i would like to appreciate the working draft of a document that is really practical, without unnecessary ideological proclamations. i appreciate the emphasis on implementation, monitoring and evaluating the existing impacts rather than promises to produce new and new legislation and regulations. i like that the commission wants to set an example, that it wants to push for 40% representation of women in top and middle management, i think we should record that. i appreciate the focus on specific objectives, measures for women, or parents, who have children, who want to take care of these children, but also want to work and want to further their professional careers. the commission therefore proposes and will promote and promote in the member states the flexibility of parental leave, the flexibility of forms of work to strengthen women's chances of finding employment. and i think it's also up to us in the european parliament to perhaps add what is missing there, at least for me, and that is a greater appreciation of women who care and want to care for their children, because that's where they see their irreplaceable place, and that is their motherhood and caring for the family. and i think the most discriminated group are women and parents who are looking after their children and investing in the future of europe and the member states instead of saving for their pension accounts. these are the ones we should give our support and attention to.
madam president, thank you for the opportunity to speak, i think you are setting a good example of equal opportunities for us members of this house. first of all, mrs jourová, i think she has always spent long evenings with us, and that is precisely the issue, and her absence here is due to the fact that she was negotiating a data protection agreement, so i would like to say to my rapporteur that i see this as a legitimate excuse. but as far as the subject itself is concerned, i think that, of course, the ratio that is in force in nature and that nature determines - 52% in favour of women and 48% to the detriment of men - is of course not respected in many positions, is not respected at the level of the european union. on the other hand, we should never allow women to be disadvantaged. what i heard from colleague sulin is very shocking to me. but gender equality shouldn't be a political fetish, and i sometimes feel like it is.
for the s&d group. madam chairman, we've been dealing with this for what, five years, more? and all the while, europeans are exposed to chemicals that cause cancer, affect the psyche, cause abortion, teratogenesis, infertility, diabetes, and so on. commissioner, you know better than i do, because you're a doctor. i have spoken about this problem with the irish presidency, the lithuanian, the greek, the italian, the latvian and the luxembourg presidencies. today the netherlands says it's the priority of his presidency and they're not even here, so it's a tragedy. commissioner, it's not that long since we talked about this in the chemistry class, and i said that you were not to blame for the situation. that's not true anymore. you promised to solve this, you didn't keep your word. today you promise a quick solution, and can you be trusted to do so when you dare to say that science is not unanimous on this issue? well, that's just plain nonsense. so far, the commission has not respected the court, has not immediately presented the criteria which it has already prepared, and that is also your responsibility. so there are a few questions left. what is the real reason why the commission has not respected parliament for years, has not respected the european citizens, the scientific community and now even the court of justice? is this the ttip negotiations? according to the letter from the us side, this legislation would disrupt the negotiations. we saw the letter, of course. or is it the industry lobby that has forced this shameful, unnecessary, pointless impact study to mentor the scientific establishment? whatever it is, the commission failed, you failed personally, and i'm sorry because i trusted you. we're getting glyphosate authorization for another 15 years instead of criteria, thank you. and if we ask, if you ask, what in every way destroys the trust of european society in the eu, it's cases like this. fix it and fix it now.
madam president, i generally support the commission's approach, but i would like to be rather strict for one minute. according to my notes, the opinion requested by the commission, specifically as regards the scientific criteria, was issued by the european food safety authority on 20 march 2013. the deadline was december 2013, nothing happened. and it is only in february 2014 that the commission announces that it will carry out an impact assessment. well, i think that's a clear indication of how careless the commission has been, how it has broken all the deadlines. i don't know what she was doing for a whole year after the efsa opinion. and i think that the officials and even the high officials of the commission are paid by the european citizens for their service, i think quite decently. it would be appropriate for the commissioner to stop telling stories, because this judgment was issued before christmas, but it is not possible to tell stories in february.
madam president, i am convinced that no clinical trial should end up with such a tragic death toll and with so many people injured and hospitalized, and i would like to express my sincere condolences to them. on the other hand, i think that the conclusions are actually quite premature and the debate seemed to me to be somewhat premature to what objective findings should bring, which is why i also signed up for this speech. i want to support the commissioner's efforts to obtain as much objective information as possible on this matter and only then, if necessary, to assess what has happened at the political level. i don't want to get into a fight or a sprint of strong statements on this very topic when objective information is still lacking. i would like to support the commissioner in this, unlike my previous contribution on the previous point.
mr president, i made my points on migration yesterday so i have just one single sentence on this for the minister. minister, you referred to the fact that measures have to be taken as soon as possible, so just let me underline that it is possible: it is badly needed and needed now. i think that if we do not arrive at a conclusion at the european council, we will fail. on the uk deal, i think that it is up to the british to assess whether it is sufficient. i must say that i very much welcome and appreciate the words of my colleague, mr kirkhope, because i think that he was the loudest and the clearest on the position. but i must say that i am not that happy with the deal. i think there is a certain consequence for the eu and there are consequences for our citizens and for us, but if this is the price to be paid for the uk to stay in the eu, i am ready to go along. i have two remarks. one is that i would have expected to have gone further on the reforms. second, i greatly appreciate that we have achieved a deal on better regulation, something that i and a few other colleagues have worked very hard on in the past months or year and a half.
mr. chairman, one of the topics of the council's deliberations is to set new rules for britain. i believe that the debate on the new rules is not only important for britain, but is of crucial importance for the european union as a whole, and not because of the threat of britain leaving the european union. for me, the current negotiations are mainly about a new way of looking at the functioning of the european union. it is high time to really think about how the union should work. as the world changes dramatically, the union must not persist in its administratively complex, often dysfunctional model. the inability to act quickly in crisis situations such as ukraine or the current hesitation in the refugee crisis only increases the need to change the internal rules of functioning. the adoption of new rules for britain is a real opportunity for me to make the necessary changes for the whole of europe.
mr president, let me start on migration. for almost a year we have been testing solutions that do not work. by this i mean so-called national solutions. during that time things have just got worse. we have more debates; we have more blame and shaming; we have no improvement. so i clearly support what mr juncker has said. we have on the table a portfolio of solutions and measures – measures that are linked. we must deliver them. if we do so, we will gradually get the situation under control. so let me refer to what manfred weber said at the beginning: there is no excuse for the council not to act, so i call on the council to really act. we must finally do it, otherwise the cost will be huge. let me say now three points on the brexit. first, i appreciate the great effort of president tusk, the council and all the others involved in addressing the requests of prime minister cameron. they have made a great effort. similarly, i hope they were not only considering how to accommodate his request, but how to make sure that the functionality of the european union – which is not great, as we know – will not be harmed after the deal is agreed. let me also express one thing. as i said, there was great effort on the side of the council and european politicians. we need no less effort from mr cameron himself. he should not hesitate to say to the british people how important it is for britain to stay. i hope he knows it.
in writing. the adoption of a bilateral safeguard clause to the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova will allow both parties to temporarily suspend tariff preferences in the event of a significant increase in imports causing economic injury to the domestic industry of the importing party. for example, this clause will help to protect the european market from a large increase in imports of certain agricultural products without a clear justification of their origin. the agreement also includes a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism, which is a kind of guarantee to protect the eu market, but it is worth remembering that in practice the eu has never had to use this type of clause.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's report which endorses the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council which de facto implements the provisions of the association agreement with moldova, which was concluded last year, which allow the tariff preferences established by the association agreement to be temporarily suspended in the event that unexpected and excessive supplies of goods from moldova threaten the interests of eu producers. the possibility of such a 'rescue brake' is therefore already provided for in the association agreement and the current regulation only allows this instrument to be used in the exceptional situations described. i also supported the report on a similar matter concerning georgia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which implements the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement with moldova, like most eu trade agreements, contains a bilateral safeguard clause and a circumvention mechanism. i support this report because, in order to implement the measures contained in the agreement, the necessary instrument in the form of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council must be introduced into the internal legal order of the eu. it is necessary to protect eu producers where necessary and therefore it is necessary to adopt a regulation. i agree with the proposal that the commission should be required to submit reports which contribute to the parliamentary scrutiny of trade policy by the european commission.
in writing. the adoption of a bilateral safeguard clause to the association agreement between the european union and georgia will allow both parties to temporarily suspend tariff preferences in the event of a significant increase in imports causing economic injury to the domestic industry of the importing party. article 27 of the agreement contains a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism which provides for the possibility to re-impose a duty rate under the most-favoured-nation clause if imports of certain processed agricultural products originating in georgia exceed a certain threshold (average annual volume of imports) without duly justifying their exact origin. the inclusion of the circumvention clause is necessary to prevent imports of non-georgian products into the union via georgia benefiting from the provisions of the agreement and, in particular, to prevent countries which have concluded a bilateral free trade agreement with georgia, such as turkey and the europmed countries, from using the agreement with the union to circumvent the 'rules of origin'. this provision also serves as a mechanism to protect georgian producers against possible abuse and unprecedented competition by non-georgian producers.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and georgia, signed in june 2014 and endorsed by the european parliament on 18 december 2014, is a significant means for georgian exporters to access european markets and thus relieve themselves of pressure from their russian neighbour. the association agreement, which has also been offered to armenia and moldova, introduces an important preferential regime between the eu and georgia and allows georgian exporters to access the european single market on better terms. it should be noted that the eu market is the most important export destination for georgia. the amendment we're debating here is an important part of the signed agreement, specifically article 27, which contains the so-called anti-circumvention mechanism. i am in favour of the inclusion of a circumvention clause to prevent non-compliance with the wording of the agreement and to prevent falsification of the rules of origin. this provision is intended to protect both georgian and european producers and to prevent the use of favourable rules and imports of non-georgian products under the said agreement. it is our duty to uphold the agreements we have signed and to ensure that both parties involved respect the rules of the game. i would also like to support the proposal for a reporting obligation which this proposal establishes for the commission, whereby the commission submits to the co-legislators an annual report on the implementation of that regulation, which it subsequently publishes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which implements the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because the adoption of the proposed regulation is necessary to strengthen georgia's obligations under the provisions of the anti-circumvention mechanism agreement. this mechanism is intended to protect union producers where necessary. as in the case of the similar report on the association agreement with moldova, i welcome the proposal for a reporting obligation for the european commission, whereby the commission will subsequently submit an annual report to the co-legislators on the implementation of that regulation.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of making literature accessible to the blind and of not allowing extensive copyright interpretation to hinder the dissemination of literature. however, since many member states have different views on copyright protection and do not want to ratify the treaty, the eu cannot impose the treaty on states against their will. i abstained from the vote.
in the case of the european commission, the european commission has already launched a project to develop a european database on the use of the internet for the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. for visually impaired people, this is a fundamental barrier to access to education and full participation in society. i therefore supported the european parliament's call for the eu member states, including the czech republic, to ratify the treaty as a matter of urgency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution urging eu member states to accelerate the ratification of the marrakesh treaty. indeed, only five per cent of the literature published in europe is published in accessible formats, adapted for blind and visually impaired persons, such as braille, large print and audio books. the marrakech treaty adopted in summer 2013 allows for literature adapted for visually impaired persons to be freely used across borders without having to take copyright rules or other trade restrictions into consideration. however, ratification of the treaty is still blocked by a minority of eu member states and, therefore, the agreement has not yet entered into force in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the impact of genetically modified food on human health is controversial. i therefore encourage consumers to be informed whether a product is natural or genetically modified. i support the idea that it is up to each member state to decide whether or not to allow the import of genetically modified products. i do not support the objection that there should be a blanket ban on the importation of these foods throughout the eu. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. i voted against the motions to raise objections to the authorisation of genetically modified soybeans. all three species for which authorisation is concerned are herbicide resistant and therefore have good conditions for effective cultivation. the applications were also subject to scientific risk assessment at both european level (gmo panel of the european food safety authority (efsa)) and national level, which was favourable. i therefore regard the statement of objections as a position motivated by political rather than factual and professional reasons.
‒ the subject of genetically modified crops is a highly technical one and therefore, in my view, it should be primarily up to experts in the field of biology and genetics to assess whether a given genetically modified food is dangerous or not. in the three cases voted on today by the european parliament, namely mon 87708, 89788, 87705, 89788 and fg72 soybeans, the conclusions of the european food safety authority are available, and the crops were then examined in the czech republic by the scientific committee for gm food and feed. none of these professional bodies see any health risks. while i believe that restraint and caution are needed when genetically modified food is placed on the market, because the field of genetics is still developing, albeit very rapidly, i also believe that european legislation is sufficiently prudent in this respect and that the standards for placing genetically modified food on european markets are sufficiently strict. if the european food safety authority has, in accordance with the legislative procedure, recognised the crops concerned as not being harmful on the basis of the research, i see no reason to withdraw the commission's draft implementing decisions.
in writing. ‒ contrary to the result of the final vote, i opposed the objection to authorise the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean fg72. the application to put the soybean concerned on the market was fully compliant with eu legislation; the technical decision to authorise it or not is then left to the commission, which assesses the application based on scientific evidence. the commission agreed to validate the placing on the market and i see no reason for denying the scientific assessment.
in writing. ‒ the impact of genetically modified food on human health is controversial. i therefore encourage consumers to be informed whether a product is natural or genetically modified. i support the idea that it is up to each member state to decide whether or not to allow the import of genetically modified products. i do not support the objection that there should be a blanket ban on the importation of these foods throughout the eu. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. ‒ contrary to the result of the final vote, i opposed the objection to authorise the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. the application to put the soybean concerned on the market was fully compliant with eu legislation; the technical decision to authorise it or not is then left to the commission, which assesses the application based on scientific evidence. the commission agreed to validate the placing on the market and i see no reason for denying the scientific assessment.
in writing. ‒ the impact of genetically modified food on human health is controversial. i therefore encourage consumers to be informed whether a product is natural or genetically modified. i support the idea that it is up to each member state to decide whether or not to allow the import of genetically modified products. i do not support the objection that there should be a blanket ban on the importation of these foods throughout the eu. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. ‒ contrary to the result of the final vote, i opposed the objection to authorise the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788. the application to put the soybean concerned on the market was fully compliant with eu legislation; the technical decision to authorise it or not is then left to the commission, which assesses the application based on scientific evidence. the commission agreed to validate the placing on the market and i see no reason for denying the scientific assessment.
madam president, i voted against the objection and i am also glad that this objection was finally rejected by the european parliament. that means that the european commission's regulation will apply, which i think is a good starting point. the limit that applies is strict, meaning 680 mg of nitrous oxide, which is the strict limit. what is important is that the measurement will be carried out in operation, which i think is realistic and also a good solution for both the manufacturers and especially for us who use cars, diesel engines and so on. so this change in measurement proposed by the european commission is, i think, a step in the right direction, and the conformity factors proposed are, i think, a good solution.
in writing. ‒ i voted together with the majority of the parliament to reject the objection on emissions from passenger and commercial vehicles. this vote enabled us to clear the way to the second real driving emissions package, to avoid any uncertainties and will now oblige the industry to meet the strict deadlines foreseen by legislation. furthermore, it will help us to prevent that jobs are lost in the sector and that measures are taken immediately to safeguard air quality. the outcome of the vote means that the manufacturers will need to bring down the discrepancy to a ‘conformity factor’ of a maximum of 2.1 (110%) for new vehicle models by september 2017, and as a second step, lower the discrepancy to a factor of 1.5 (50%) by january 2020 for all new vehicle models. commissioner bieńkowska has made a further commitment today to bring down the conformity factor to 1 by 2023.
in writing. – although the majority of the european parliament’s members did not object, the compromise proposed by eu member states stating that, following the entry into force of a more accurate testing method of car emission next year, new models would be allowed to emit nitrogen oxide at a rate of 168 milligrams per kilometre, despite an eu limit of 80mg/km, i decided to refuse this compromise. by endorsing this proposal, the european parliament basically allowed diesel cars to emit double the legal emission limit of nitrogen oxide until 2020. the result of the vote is, i think, a blanket derogation from our emission limits. i believe it is urgent that stricter rules for car emissions testing apply in europe.
in writing. it is understood that when the emission measurement procedure is changed (measurement in normal operation), the engines will show different (higher) emissions. the transitional measures proposed by the commission to allow cars with emissions above 80 mg nox per km to pass the test are therefore understandable. acceptance of the objection would imply a de facto tightening of the standard, but without a proper examination. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ after careful consideration, i have decided to abstain, although i am not happy with the commission's decision to introduce emissions tests in normal operation and consider the permitted deviations in emission measurements to be unduly benevolent. i rely on the commission's promise to apply the review clause to bring emissions levels as close as possible to the approved figures with minimum deviations. this requires the speedy elimination of technical irregularities in the pems measurement software that may be partly responsible for deviations in emission measurements.
in writing. in its objection, the european parliament criticises the commission for having made changes beyond its competence in the draft implementing decision concerning, in particular, the introduction of a new real-use emission measurement (rde) system and for having increased the nitrogen emission limit for 2019 and 2020 above the target value of 80 mg/km, namely 168 and 120 mg/km respectively. the current value is around 600 mg. the eu should strive for the highest possible emission reductions, the real value of emissions (where our desire to improve the environment is on the one hand, the technological capabilities of manufacturers and the 'life cycle' of innovation in the automotive industry on the other) have been and will be discussed. but above all, it is important for us to have an rde testing system in place as soon as possible, which will provide us with important and much more accurate information. although i am very dissatisfied with the form in which the commission has proposed the amendments, and in this respect the objection is entirely justified, i am also aware that the adoption of the objection would dramatically delay the introduction of the rde and would have a negative impact on both the environment and the manufacturer.
in writing. i voted to reject the objection to the compromise agreement on the new testing rules. delaying this decision to increase the emission limits for diesel vehicles for nitrogen oxides would only increase the legal uncertainty for both manufacturers and approval authorities. any delay in the implementation of this legislation would leave very little time for the necessary changes and would ultimately delay the desired positive environmental impacts.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament rejected a resolution objecting to a compromise on testing of car emissions and demanding a greater say in the eu’s decision-making process on this issue. the resolution was motivated mainly by efforts to limit air pollution from car emissions, namely by introducing a narrower margin for testing emissions on the road. while i believe that stricter rules for car emissions testing should apply, i am however convinced that approval of the resolution would put the entire process into question, create uncertainty for car-making industry and citizens by prolong the process of introducing stricter norms in real driving conditions with very uncertain outcome. therefore, i decided to vote against this resolution. now i however expect the car industry to embrace the new rules and work with us to improve car emissions testing. car producers had a long time to do something about this situation, and it is now time they start taking this issue very seriously. i expect the revision clause to be used in 2017 in order to introduce an even stricter conformity factor within just a very limited period of time.
in writing. - i voted against the objection. i consider the decision of my colleagues to be unnecessary and very wrong. now, of all things, the automotive industry needs uncertainty and decision-making delay. the original agreement between the member states was already sufficiently harsh. the excessive aggressiveness of parliament will not solve anything and will rather make the situation worse. it will mean delays and eventually, perhaps even harsher demands on the automobile industry. the european commission has already partially met the requirements of the objection, when it presented revised legislation tightening supervision of laboratories last week.
madam president, i am quite fascinated by the way some of my colleagues say their minute and then walk away, not knowing the facts at all. i don't know of any example of a state that, if it fences itself, increases its employment, increases its gdp productivity. with all due respect to my predecessors, europe is the truly significant service provider, it's maybe 40% of our gdp that we provide, and that's our competitive advantage. liberalisation of this space is in our vital interest. it will certainly increase employment. our aim should be to liberalise this environment and to protect what is important. these public services are excluded from this liberalisation for the time being by international agreements and we can continue to protect them. for me, for example, it was essential that municipalities and their jurisdiction were not discriminated against in any way by this agreement. we're at the beginning, we should finish this negotiation, this is just a mandate for this negotiation.
in writing. – negotiations for a trade in services agreement (tisa), under way since april 2013, aim at establishing international minimum rules for trade in sectors such as financial, digital and transport services between 23 wto members – eu included, accounting for 70% of global trade in services. these rules will facilitate and liberalise their trade in services. this report defines the european parliament priorities for the european commission’s mandate for negotiation. through this report, we made it clear to that these negotiations should deliver a deal that tisa should afford more rights to our citizens at home and remove some obstacles to our companies abroad. if the final agreement does not reflect the european parliament’s priorities, we have the right to veto the text.
in writing. i voted for the report presented because i think it creates a very good platform for the negotiations themselves on the proposed trade in services agreement (tisa). the document sets out clear guidelines, compliance with which should prevent the risks inherent in tisa (privatisation of public sector services, misuse of data in the field of information services, deregulation of financial services, etc.). the document voted today is the most progressive report to come out of the committee on international trade in recent years, even according to many critics of the agreements in the making. it is only to be hoped that the negotiations of other free trade agreements, such as ttip and ceta, will be treated in a similar way.
in writing. ‒ in general, i am in favour of liberalising trade in services as far as possible. but i voted against because an amendment was added to the ilo standards where i cannot agree, for example, to tell employers who they can and cannot hire or how they can rate a worker. if the market is to be genuinely liberalised, it is therefore not possible to discriminate against drivers and road hauliers, for example, and to restrict their access to the market. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the services agreement (tisa) because i am a supporter of efforts to liberalise services. i am pleased that the ep is playing an active role in the negotiation process and is clearly supporting the european negotiators. it is in our interest to negotiate an ambitious agreement that includes fast-growing economies, including china. for this reason, the negotiations should also focus on the full compatibility of tisa with gats, so that there are no obstacles to its integration into the wto framework. the objective should be to extend the application of advanced rules on trade in services, including rules in the area of digital trade or to facilitate cross-border movement of persons for the purpose of trade, to the widest possible extent.
in writing. ‒ the services market is the backbone of the european economy. as a social democrat, i am particularly interested in improving working conditions and public services. the current rules on the services market are outdated and not very functional, so we need new, clear and effective rules. a new and meaningful agreement on trade in services was to be established as soon as possible. but we will ensure that the rights of employees are not restricted or the level of public and cultural services. the agreement shall not jeopardise the ability of the eu or the member states to ensure and protect labour standards and functional regulations. the commission is given a new mandate by parliament which, among other things, emphasises the requirements of a global level playing field and reciprocity in market access. if this mandate is not respected, the european parliament may exercise its right of veto. as a member of the itre committee, i will monitor in particular the telecommunications and energy services sectors, which are of vital importance to citizens and contribute to the creation of quality jobs.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution containing a european parliament recommendation to the commission on the negotiation of a trade in services agreement (tisa), which should strengthen the importance of services to the world economy. the agreement should contribute to greater progress in financial services, national regulation, telecommunications and other services. the tisa agreement will have a positive impact on the services sector by facilitating access to the services market of third countries and enhancing transparency, and will contribute to intensifying cooperation with non-european countries in this field. tisa can bring more rights and lower prices to consumers, more job opportunities and protection for workers. in the area of services, it will also bring, inter alia, better quality, safety, affordability and equal treatment.
in writing. ‒ it voted in favour of the report on tisa (trade in services agreement) negotiations today, which started in spring 2013. the trade in services agreement is a multilateral trade agreement currently being negotiated by 23 members of the world trade organisation (wto), including the eu – with the aim to liberalise trade in services among those parties. with this report, the european parliament aims to provide the commission with guidelines on the parliament’s priorities for the remainder of the tisa negotiations. indeed, tisa represents an opportunity for the european market to ensure reciprocity for european companies and will thus benefit european consumers and workers.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this report, which contains very detailed recommendations from the european parliament to the european commission, and i believe that the commission should certainly include these proposals in the tisa agreement. i consider the recommendations on personal data protection to be very important, as the commission is obliged to ensure that personal data can only be transferred outside the union if the provisions of eu data protection law on transfers to third countries are respected. furthermore, it should only negotiate provisions on the flow of personal data if the application of eu data protection legislation is fully guaranteed and respected. i also agree with the need to exclude existing and future services of general interest, including services of general economic interest (including, but not limited to, health, social services, etc.), from eu obligations.
madam president, the european parliament adopted today a resolution commenting on the commission's strategy paper on gender equality. i regret that a version of the european parliament resolution has been adopted which calls for a new strategy, which calls for a european summit on gender equality, instead of focusing on concrete actions that can really improve the position of women in the european union. and these are the steps that the strategy put forward by the european commission through commissioner jourová contains, because it contains objectives that also concern improving the position of women on the labour market, improving their employment, improving their situation in terms of pay, pensions, improving their representation in the leading bodies of public administration, but also in private companies. so there are concrete elements that are there, and unfortunately instead there's a declaration that doesn't solve anything.
madam president, it is a little difficult for me to speak after my introduction, because i have been thinking for quite some time about how to vote on this particular matter, and i confess that i have found no reason not to support this resolution. first of all, i want to say that i really believe in the principle of equality of persons. gender equality: that's, i think, a little bit of a shifted gender equality, a little bit of a political fetish. it is essential to me that equality of persons is a fundamental principle of all constitutional documents and of the founding documents of the european union. as for the objectives mentioned, if i read the resolution itself, it says that it demands that progress be made in areas such as violence against women, working hours, decision-making, health, education, the media, external relations. i therefore believe that these demands are legitimate and that is why i did not find any reason not to support this resolution and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on the ‘new strategy for gender equality and women’s rights post- 2015’. equal treatment of men and women is a fundamental principle of eu law and needs to be implemented. however, like on previous occasions, the measures, such as the women on boards directive, outlined in the resolution aimed to attain equal treatment, go beyond my views on how to achieve such goal.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the eu developing a new gender equality strategy or organising a conference on gender equality, which is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ as a social democrat, i reject the current state of inequality between women and men, and therefore i will continue to fight for women's rights to achieve social justice. moreover, equal treatment and equal opportunities for women and men are key objectives for all member states. it is therefore regrettable that the commission work programme for 2016 does not contain any specific reference to the eu strategy for gender equality after 2015. the commission's lack of attention to this issue is shown by the fact that in december last year it only published a minor internal document and also limited the duration of the measures. i therefore join the call to member states to take further action to address equality issues, address violence against women and ensure equal access and opportunities in employment, health care and education, in both the public and private sectors.
in writing. women's rights are not just abstract issues women in the european union face pay discrimination, problems reconciling work and personal life, or a higher risk of poverty every day. i therefore joined the call of the european parliament and the commission to come forward as soon as possible with a binding strategy on how it wants to promote equality between women and men between 2016 and 2020.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is a core value of the eu and the right to equal treatment is deeply rooted in european society. gender equality is also essential, as a strategic objective, to achieving the overall europe 2020 objectives of growth, employment and social inclusion. i nevertheless abstained on the final vote as i am opposed to any binding quotas for women on a board. i believe that this is for subsidiarity and that member states should decide.
in writing. i voted against this motion for a resolution by mrs von storch. in my opinion, these initiatives push the gender issue to an unacceptable level even for women themselves.
madam president, commissioner, relations between serbia and kosovo must be an integral part of the negotiating process for serbia's accession to the european union. i am very pleased that the debate has been opened by chapter 35, which deals with these relations. but i have a question about last week, when there was a very long meeting in brussels between high representative mogherini and the prime ministers of serbia and kosovo, and we did not get much information about that meeting. the main concerns were the implementation of the agreement on strengthening the status of municipalities in the north of kosovo, which was suspended by the constitutional court of kosovo and is very unpopular among the kosovo population. could you tell us, commissioner, what conclusions have been drawn from the negotiations on the unblocking of the implementation of this agreement in kosovo and what role the european union will continue to play in the implementation of this agreement? (the speaker rejected the question put by mr buonanno by raising his blue card.)
madam president, i agree with what commissioner creţu said. the fact is that when an institutional crisis is triggered in a country based on one candidate refusing to respect elections that were not accompanied by mass fraud, it is really throwing the country into chaos. and i don't think the solution to this situation is for us to leave this country, to leave the people of this country and so-called leave them to their fate. i think what my introduction, mr corrao, has suggested is not the answer. in my opinion, we should continue to monitor this process, possibly even send another mission. trying to increase the motivation of the people to vote and of course to complete the democratic process that is going on in haiti. we must not resign, that would be a mistake.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, it has been a very useful exchange and i thank all members for the clarity of their interventions and, of course, for their efforts to find a solution to these deadlocks we are facing now in haiti. the subject is the crisis after the elections but i should say, and i am sure that you all know, that the eu has been providing support for the haitian people, in one of the poorest countries in the world, for long years now. especially after the earthquake in 2010, one out of two haitians has been reached by some help in one way or another. from this debate i conclude that we all agree on using eu diplomacy, eu diplomatic efforts and other instruments to support the haitian-led solution to the current crisis, grounded in respect for democracy and human rights. may i close by signalling once again my appreciation of parliament’s role in election observation and in keeping this important issue on the international agenda.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, i welcome the opportunity to join you today to discuss an important topic on behalf of the high representative federica mogherini: the situation in libya, the advances made so far and the challenges that are still lying ahead. we have seen considerable progress since the last debate in this chamber. the libyan political agreement was signed in skhirat on 17 december, a presidency council has been formed and is meeting and working, and the government of national accord has been announced and the temporary security council has been appointed. as soon as she could, on friday 8 january, the high representative travelled to tunis to meet the presidency council to express the eu’s political support for their action and to discuss with all its members, all together, about the immediate and longer-term assistance the european union can provide to the new libyan authorities. she reminded them that the european union’s eur 100 million aid package for libya has been ready for a while and that all it takes for its full implementation is for the government of national accord to start working in the country. on the ground, promising new truces were signed recently between the municipalities: between misrata and the neighbouring tawergha, finally putting an end to an enmity dating back to the 2011 revolution; and between zawiya and zintan west of tripoli, in sorman, again just west of tripoli and in the south, although it remains shaky between the tebus and the touareg, who have been fighting for months in obari. the house of representatives voted on 25 january to approve the libyan political agreement, albeit conditionally. the recognition of the un-brokered process is the sole genuine political process in libya. at the same time the house of representatives did not approve the ministerial appointments in the proposed gna. further discussions are required, but eventually we hope and expect that libyan decision-makers will realise that there is no alternative to a unity government representing all the regions and all the social and political groups and that only such a government will give real hope to the libyan people that their country can finally tackle, hopefully once and for all, the spread of terrorism, an economy on the brink and threats to libya’s integrity and development. when the unity government is endorsed by parliament, the priority will be the security of the population and the fight against daesh. tripoli’s security must be essentially enforced by the libyans themselves. libyans will provide the core of the new security apparatus and the international community can provide further training and assistance should the new government request it. the european union is also actively engaged in this security effort. our liaison and planning cell in tunis has been active and will continue to support the united nations and the new libyan authorities in drafting plans. member states have agreed to bolster the cell and also to reinforce civilian planning capacity through a reactivated and expanded eu-bam mission. it should become operational in the next few weeks and provide capacity on a broad spectrum of police support including counter-terrorism, customs, border security and migration. mr president, honourable members, the democratic transition in libya is a difficult and complicated process, but a un-brokered libyan political agreement has made important progress and deserves our continued support. the alternative is simply chaos – a country on the brink of economic catastrophe – and all this can still be avoided. it is our duty as libya’s neighbours to continue supporting the united nations process and the gna, and we are fully committed to continuing doing exactly that.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i would like to thank the minister for the brief and show my appreciation for the efforts from colleagues from the other political groups on the draft resolution that we have managed to agree on. it is a very good text. it is balanced, and what is important is that there was strong support behind it. i hope that this will also show tomorrow during the vote. it has already been said today that president buhari has reminded us of the situation not just in the south of libya, and not just in libya, but in the whole sahel region, which is in crisis. it also has to be said that there is now one of the highest concentrations of arms that has ever been seen in the region. it is also a matter of fact that human trafficking has been present for years and is further intensifying. the situation of the people, as well as of minorities and migrants, is just devastating. it is tragic. so it is high time that we were able to arrive at an agreement, but of course we need that agreement to be supported. what can we do apart from assisting libya in this respect? i think that it is a condition sine qua non that we will be communicating only with those entities that are party to the agreement. this is absolutely necessary. we know that sometimes some of our member states and some of our politicians find informal channels. this is not an issue on which we should play with fire. daesh is present. a part of the coastline is basically in the hands of daesh, or groups loyal to it. the territory is not that far from europe, so basically we have all the prerequisites for a widespread conflict in which isis will be gaining ground. we should therefore avoid making the mistakes of the past and make the best of the opportunity today. it will not be easy, but it needs to be supported. for me, the last resort – if political efforts fail – would eventually be an intervention. i understand that the coalition against isis has not reached that yet in rome, but this is the option of last resort.
mr. chairman, last week the agreement to form a national unity government burned, and that is a report that is very serious and tragic. the absence of a legitimate government is destabilizing the entire region. the political vacuum is worsening the humanitarian situation of the local population and is fundamentally destabilising the neighbouring states, in particular tunisia and egypt. the libyan vacuum is a breeding ground for extremist organisations linked to is. until there is a government of national unity, the impact of the eu's naval military mission against smugglers (operation sophia) will also be very limited. only the legitimate libyan government can allow its vessels to enter its territorial waters. i therefore urge the eu and the international community to make every effort to stabilise the country and to help reach an agreement on a government of national unity.
mr. chairman, i would like to emphasize that today all the major candidates in both the republican and democratic parties recognize that the fundamental mistake of the united states was to clear the field in iraq, that it created a security vacuum and it created a front for the expansion of daesh. i think it would be a huge mistake to repeat this process, to leave libya at this time. it is necessary to say that the greatest concentration of weapons according to all available information is indeed on the territory of libya today. and we should be looking at how to establish a national unity government, i think there's been a lot of instructional guidance in this debate. i would very much welcome it if the minister and, of course, the institutions of the european union, would continue to play a positive role in this matter, despite the fact that some other powers are trying to keep libya in the state it is in. that would certainly not be in the interest of the european union.
madam president, although december brought new hope for democracy in venezuela, what we have seen in recent weeks in caracas is the opposite. the government continues to reject the voice of the people by denying the powers of the newly elected assembly. that's not how a democracy works. what does venezuela need right now? first, we must resolve the urgent problems affecting the venezuelan economy and society, we must reach agreements instead of confrontations. the first step towards restoring a true climate of national reconciliation would be to release all political prisoners. secondly, europe must be more present. i ask the high representative to extend the mandate and increase funding for the european union's current instruments to respond to the serious crisis that venezuela is now experiencing. before i close, i would like to convey my deep respect and admiration to the brave women of venezuela, some of whom are with us today - mitzy capriles, her daughter antonieta and maría alejandra aristeguieta-álvarez - as well as lilian tintori and tamara suju, who could not be with us today. they are part of a unique force for freedom in the country. the change that is now taking place in venezuela is due, in large part, to these brave women.
madam president, i am fighting against violence against women, not because i am a feminist, do not suspect me of that, but because protecting the dignity of human life is a priority for us christian democrats here in the european parliament. we know that violence against women is unfortunately not new in europe, as has already been said here, up to 30% of women are subject to violence here, but today's debate was triggered by an unprecedented attack on women in cologne on the rhine, when this attack was carried out by refugees on new year's eve. and we expect refugees to accept asylum with gratitude, to be treated with a certain amount of respect. unfortunately, i don't think it's possible to underestimate these security risks, on the contrary. it appears that there is a need to increase security measures. of course, an attack like this is fueling anti-refugee sentiment, and we don't want that. i think that even here in the european parliament we cannot remain silent about this and that we must be aware of the risks that the increased concentration of people from other socioeconomic, other socio-cultural backgrounds brings, and we must respond to this, i am now referring to the member states, but also to the european commission, we must respond with increased security measures.
in writing. the events in cologne have rightly attracted attention and outrage. any sexual harassment is unacceptable and it's shocking that it's occurred on such a scale. what is particularly alarming is that one in three european women has experienced physical or sexual violence during her lifetime. it is far from being the only problem of harassment in public places, although it is now the one that attracts the most attention. the most common form of violence against women is that which takes place behind closed doors in the home. in the czech republic alone, one in two women has experienced psychological or physical violence, most often by her partner. it's very important to fight violence in public places. equally important, countries that have not yet done so should join the istanbul convention and commit to combating violence against women wherever it occurs.
madam president, the right to education in tatar and ukrainian is systematically suppressed in crimea. the number of tatar schools and classes is decreasing. freedom of speech is at stake. some tatar media were purposely forced to shut down. cultural and symbolic elements of tatar identity are restricted or suppressed. we should also condemn the expulsion and intimidation of tatar political leaders. this includes mustafa jamilyev, who has long been warning about the efforts of the russian federation to occupy crimea. let me remind you that mustafa was imprisoned in the ussr for three years in 1968 for criticizing the occupation of my country, czechoslovakia. he is a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'lugansk people's republic'. the crimean tatars need our support in a time of unfreedom.
the author. madam president, i would like to say first of all that this resolution is a great compromise and a compromise for all parties. the european people's party has finally supported it, but i must say at the outset that we had a number of reservations about this text and that we were not entirely unanimous in how it was drafted. and this text also shows another thing, how necessary it is to verify information. some groups have tried to include information that has been found to be false and that cannot be verified by neutral sources. i would like to call on the bahraini government to review the case of muhammad ramadan, along with other cases of suspected human rights violations, and i would also like to commend the progress made by bahrain in recent years, for example in the area of the death penalty.
madam president, we are currently witnessing in many countries a debate on how to achieve the desired balance between freedom and security. even if bahrain is moving in the right direction, we cannot ignore the case of muhammad ramadan and other people sentenced to death. at this point, the only thing that can prevent the execution of the death penalty in his case is the mercy of the head of state. i therefore join the call on the bahraini authorities to reinstate the moratorium on the death penalty as a step towards the abolition of the death penalty in the future, to continue reforms of the judicial and police systems in the spirit of respect for human rights.
madam president, i too believe that the disappearance of two booksellers, who are also european citizens, is unfortunately just one of a series of human rights violations in china, specifically in hong kong. and let's remember what china promised when it took over hong kong from britain. it must be said that the citizens of hong kong have become accustomed to the level of rights and instead of what china promised, there is a fundamental violation of human rights, pressure to change the state order. the human rights violations are long-term, systematic, we saw it in the protests of these people. i want to support the proposed resolution and actually call on china to honour what it committed to when it took over hong kong from the uk.
madam chairman, we are witnessing a violation of the constitution in hong kong today. the arrest and kidnapping of booksellers who sell or self-publish banned literature and their subsequent torture to obtain a drunk driving confession really speaks volumes about the true nature of the chinese regime, which does not even respect its own laws and deviates from the principle of one country, two systems. similar practices have been seen in various forms in many european countries in recent times, and some of us feel obliged to point out that similar discrimination is occurring everywhere in the world today. i am therefore in full support of the resolution, particularly paragraph 9, which states that relations between the european union and china must be based on an effective and open dialogue on human rights. a resolution is not enough.
in writing. ‒ the eu is in trouble and not ready for enlargement. i don't agree with us imposing european policy on serbia and interfering in its foreign-political affairs (military exercises with russia) or praising the hosting of gay pride marches. i voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2015 report on serbia as it builds on the original report of the european commission in a positive spirit of support for serbia's efforts to meet the conditions for eu accession. serbia is now becoming an important eu partner in the western balkans and needs to be given sufficient support to enable it to gradually fulfil all the conditions for membership. the basis is a functioning judicial system that ensures compliance with the newly adopted rules. serbia has to make further progress in this area, as well as in the fight against organised crime, as well as in the rights of minorities, whose members are often the source of migration pressures in the eu. the alignment of serbia's foreign policy with the eu's foreign policy, especially towards russia, is also important. however, the report also notes the progress serbia is making in the area of neighbourhood relations. good neighbourly relations are a basic condition for possible future eu membership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the progress report on serbia as it supports serbia’s european integration. nevertheless, corruption and pressure on the media remain crucial outstanding issues. indeed, it is essential that the country implement reforms in the areas of judiciary and fundamental rights and of justice, freedom and security. moreover, corruption and organised crime are widespread in the region and also represent an obstacle to serbia’s democratic, social and economic development and if progress has been made in this area, serbia has to step up its efforts. i also believe that the negotiation of chapter 35 on normalising relations with kosovo is of crucial importance for serbia’s progress on its path towards eu integration.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this report because it shows that some progress has been made in serbia in the areas covered by the report. however, i believe it is necessary for serbia to continue to consistently design and implement the reforms needed to comply with eu standards. i see a major problem in the persistently high levels of corruption in both the public and private sectors. i believe it is essential to fight corruption at the highest political levels and to significantly limit political interference in the serbian judiciary. i would also welcome greater progress in implementing initiatives to combat organised crime. last year, according to the commission's report, there was no progress in the area of freedom of expression, which i consider to be a truly alarming fact. even today, journalists are physically attacked, and only in a limited number of cases are those attacks punished. i agree that the efforts of the serbian representatives and the progress made must be appreciated, but it is clear that serbia still has a very long way to go before it is accepted into the european union.
mr president, i am convinced that kosovo needs a future. for this reason too, i supported the motion for a resolution and also want to expressly acknowledge that kosovo has undoubtedly made a number of progresses in terms of both the functioning of the state and the improvement of public services. but it also has a number of problems, no doubt, such as high unemployment, corruption, organized crime, which controls some of the territory. however, it is our duty to provide a real future for kosovo, because it is the only country currently in a de facto lockdown, as the proposed resolution we have adopted states. for this reason, i think that we must give the future to the kosovars, it is not our goal that this country is isolated. and it is good to work with it also to help solve the migration crisis, which is what the report also appreciates.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with imposing eu policies on kosovo, such as the ombudsman's office or the lgbti agenda, nor with preparing kosovo for possible eu membership. i voted against it.
‒ the future of the central and eastern european countries that have already succeeded in becoming members of the european union, as well as the countries of the western balkans, lies at the heart of the european family. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution on the kosovo report for 2015. european integration is a process that has been contributing for several years in the western balkan region to the stabilisation of neighbourly relations, a key element for the union, and also to the prosperity of the balkan countries. i am therefore very pleased that the stabilisation and association agreement was signed at the end of last year. i believe that this step will provide kosovo with even greater motivation to continue the fight against organised crime, corruption, discrimination, unemployment and for the independence of the media. only then will kosovo be able to create conditions that will benefit not only further integration efforts but also the people of the country. the rule of law and the development of quality education are also important prerequisites in this respect. it is necessary that the kosovo parliament starts to play its proper role and that it is not prevented from doing so. it is also necessary to respect the rights of minorities and to combat the radicalisation and extremism which are currently present in several eu member states. the eu, but kosovo in particular, must ensure that this country gives the young generation a perspective for the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls political actors in kosovo to find a solution to the crisis there. the opposition has been violently obstructing the work of the kosovar parliament since september 2015 and it is now time for kosovo’s political leaders to act responsibly. moreover it is of crucial importance that the kosovar government pursue its reform agenda, especially on freedom of the media and of the judiciary, reform of public administration, tackling high-level corruption and organised crime, and reform of the labour market. by voting on this text i also welcome the progress made in reaching agreements with serbia and the need to move forward with the full implementation of all the agreements already reached, and to continue the normalisation process.
in writing. - i couldn't support that report. i strongly oppose the relaxation of the visa regime for kosovo citizens, which is mentioned several times in this resolution. the conditions to be met include ensuring that the mass departure of kosovars to the union, as has been the case in previous years, is prevented, fighting organised crime is prevented and discrimination against the serb population is prevented. tens of thousands of young people have already travelled to europe. the outflow of people was stopped only by the tightening of visa requirements. i believe that if the visa for citizens of kosovo is abolished, europe can expect another wave of migration from the balkans. the outflow of young people from kosovo, which is plagued by high unemployment, instability and economic problems, is understandable. but in my view, it is another fundamental problem for the european union. i therefore believe that it is more than necessary to discuss and weigh all the pros and cons of lifting the visa requirement for kosovo citizens.
in writing. – i voted in favour and even co-signed the resolution on the situation in libya. i believe this text is a strong call for the stabilisation of libya, which is urgently needed, both for the libyans and the international community. this stabilisation process must pass by the instauration of a solid, inclusive and legitimate governance in the country. only a credible government can effectively improve the living conditions of the population and combat the terrorist groups profiting from the current no-man’s-land in the area. if the eu wants to effectively stem the flow of migrants who risk their lives to reach our continent, it must take a more active role in the region – together with the un and other international actors, it must bring an end to the current conflict.
in writing. ‒ the complicated situation in libya is largely due to the intervention of eu states against the regime of muammar gaddafi. it's not appropriate to pass a resolution that says nothing. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of what i regard as a very balanced resolution on the situation in libya. it points to the stalemate following the failure of the agreement on a government of national unity. the resolution calls on eu officials and the entire international community to do everything possible to help the process of reaching a viable compromise in this chaotic country. the absence of a legitimate government is destabilizing the entire region, especially neighboring states like tunisia and egypt. the libyan vacuum is a breeding ground for is-linked extremist organisations and also offers an alternative for is fighters who are being progressively pushed out of syrian territory. and not just that. the unprotected borders in the south are an open door for economic migrants from sub-saharan and west africa. in the current chaos, smuggling gangs are allowed to operate freely, including along libya's 1,770 km of mediterranean coastline. until there is a government of national unity, the impact of the eu's maritime military mission against smugglers (eunavfor sophia) will also be very limited. only the legitimate libyan government can allow vessels of the mission to enter the territorial waters where traffickers are most active and to return vessels to the places from which they have left.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the situation in libya because it is time to support the efforts of the international community and the various libyan groups to end the civil war and establish a government of national unity. the european union must support the stabilisation of libya, as only a stable libya will ensure the reduction of the activities of traffickers in human beings, the control of the arms trade and a real fight against terrorist groups operating in north africa and the sahel. the unified approach of the member states in supporting the current government is important here, because only unified support will ensure the transition of libyan society to a parliamentary form of government.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution i co-authored on the situation in libya. this text welcomes the un-backed political agreement reached in december last year. despite all the efforts, the house of representatives rejected the first proposal of a unity government endorsed by the united nations. indeed, stabilising libya is of crucial importance, both for its people and for the international community. only a stable government would be able to improve living conditions in the country, end tribal and sectarian violence and face the terrorist groups operating in the region. it is also a prerequisite for any effective move by the eu aimed at stemming the flow of migrants who risk their lives to cross the sea and reach europe. this resolution is a clear and strong message urging the eu and its member states, the un and other international actors to step up their efforts in assisting the libyan people to form an inclusive cabinet and bring an end to the ongoing conflict. it sends a strong signal that we must avoid the mistakes we have made in the recent past.
in writing. ‒ it is pointless for the eu to have a policy towards the islands of the member states, nor do i agree with the reallocation of money through the structural funds as such. it's amazing the nonsense that meps are able to write on paper. parliament, for example, 'calls on the commission to provide a clear definition of the persistent geographical, natural and demographic disadvantage suffered by island regions' (point 1), 'requests the commission to launch a thorough study/analysis of the excessive costs incurred by islands in relation to the transport of people and goods, energy supply and access to markets' (point 4) and, best of all, 'invites the commission to submit a proposal for a european year of islands and mountains' (point 16). voters will have a better idea of the meaning of these mep challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution insisting on the need for special eu attention for island regions within the eu and in the context of the eu cohesion policy, because of their specificities and the fact that such regions face permanent handicaps which require particular attention. it stresses the fact that common and specific permanent characteristics and features clearly distinguish island regions from mainland regions. therefore the commission is called on to take actions in order to enhance a better use of the specific cohesion policy instruments and resources that are available to tackle the handicaps arising from insularity. on the other hand this motion also calls not only to consider difficulties but also the potential of eu island regions and how this could be best harnessed for the achievement of the european union’s long term objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion.
mr president, as a member of a movement which is very strongly rooted at national level in the regional and local authorities, i naturally gave my full support to this report. i would like to emphasise the role of towns and cities, which really play an irreplaceable role, namely that of subsidiary creators and co-creators of european policy. and it is certainly important that we link the very policies that make territorial development possible. i would like to emphasize the community-planned development method that is being adopted in europe, it works. it is a method that involves businesses, municipalities, non-profit organisations in the use of european funds. however, some countries are moving away from this method and i would like the commission to actually carry out an analysis of how this method allows regions to develop. it is very important for us, and i think also for the future of europe as a europe of regions.
in writing. – with a budget of eur 454 billion for 2014-2020, the european structural and investment funds (esifs) are the european union's main investment policy tool. this resolution recalls the key role local and regional authorities play in shaping and implementing eu strategies. indeed, for the funds to have maximum impact, national, regional and local authorities in eu countries must work together closely and help eu countries to focus on funds where the need is greatest and to make optimum use of resources. regional and local authorities are close to citizens and are aware of the local needs. they bring the eu closer to citizens and help make our funds be more effective on the ground. i voted in favour of this text because it takes into account all these elements and call for the member states and the commission to strengthen this involvement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which underlines the key role of local and regional authorities in shaping and implementing eu strategies. indeed, i believe that the proximity of these authorities to citizens and the diversity of governance at local and regional level is an asset to the eu. i am also in favour of synergies and complementarity between the esi funds and other eu programmes, in which local and regional authorities can play a useful role in attaining the objectives of cohesion policy. finally, i also believe that eu cohesion policy is a good example of multilevel governance with a bottom-up approach, where the local and regional authorities strike a balance between the union’s goal of greater economic, social and territorial cohesion and the territorial impact of eu policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the role of regional and local authorities is seen as key in promoting european union strategies and initiatives. i agree that the involvement of regions in multi-level eu governance, especially in the bottom-up process, helps sustainable development, job creation and innovation at the level of local and regional economies. these initiatives then have a direct impact on improving the quality of life of citizens in the region. i believe that we should pay much more attention in this context to the disadvantaged regions, which are suffering from the large numbers of people leaving and are threatened with depopulation in the future.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the resolution on the tragic humanitarian situation in yemen could not take place as a majority of members decided to postpone the vote to the next plenary. i expect parliament to adopt a strong position on the topic in the near future.
in writing. - i am against the killing of people by the islamic state, but to "call on states that support war crimes to stop" is ridiculous. the creation of a new office for religious freedom is nonsense. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. i would like to mention here that the fundamental principles of the european union are the protection of freedom of religion, respect for international humanitarian law, tolerance for others and non-judgment of others on the basis of their faith alone. i am unequivocally against any hateful excesses and moods, whether it is the mass murder of christians in isis-controlled territory or anti-jewish and anti-islamic moods in the territory of the european union. what is happening in syria and iraq, however, is a crime of genocide, unprecedented in the world today. such crimes, involving the murder, rape and displacement of members of religious minorities, should be condemned unanimously by the international community, including the body in which we find ourselves. it is with this resolution that our work should not end. the international community must be persuaded and the un security council called upon to take strong action against the activities of daesh and to stop the financing of this terrorist organisation. in conclusion, i would like to point out that the killing of christians and other members of religious minorities is not unfortunately confined to syria and iraq, and it is our moral duty to condemn such acts, lest we suffer another tragedy of the scale of rwanda or the former yugoslavia.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the resolution adopted today, which clearly condemns the war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by the so-called islamic state. i consider it important to call on the un security council to declare these crimes genocide. i think it's a mistake that this hasn't happened before, when in 2014, the un high commissioner for human rights in his report said that the so-called islamic state had murdered up to 5,000 yazidi men and held another 5,000 to 7,000 yazidi women captive, including as sex slaves. the efforts of the so-called islamic state to 'cleanse' its territory of people of other religious faiths are clearly visible. isis is not only targeting yazidis, but also christians, shiites, turkmen, including sunnis, who interpret islam differently than isis. that is why i support the call for the un security council to refer the matter to the international criminal court. i consider that paragraph 14 is absolutely essential, in which we call for humanitarian aid and, in particular, for the creation of humanitarian corridors under the un mandate to protect un peacekeepers. i agree that these corridors can be part of the solution to the current refugee crisis. for the un, this issue should be one of the top priorities.
in writing. i supported today's resolution on the systematic mass murder of religious minorities by the so-called islamic state in iraq and syria, because its text clearly states that terrorist organisations in syria and iraq are committing genocide against all religious minorities in their areas, and especially against christians. the systematic attempt to exterminate all minorities is accompanied by murder and terror, even against muslims who disagree with these terrorists. moreover, the resolution clearly states - and thus merely repeats the content of un resolutions - that those who commit genocide cannot be given any assistance, not even financial aid, for example, in the oil trade. on the contrary, all possible help is needed for all those in iraq and syria who are targeted for murder by isis for their religious beliefs or their opposition to the spread of violence and terror.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution urging the members of the united nations security council to support a referral by the security council to the international criminal court (icc) in order to investigate violations committed in iraq and syria by so-called isis/daesh against christians, yezidis and religious and ethnic minorities. daesh violations are clear crimes against humanity and war crimes. it is also important that the international community provide protection and aid, including military protection and aid in accordance with international law, to all those targeted.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this motion for a resolution because i consider it completely unacceptable that mass killings of religious minorities take place. the most vulnerable group in syria and iraq are christians. it is unacceptable that christians are targeted by the islamic state and killed en masse, including women and children. i fully support the call for international organisations and heads of state to label such acts by isis as 'genocide', 'crimes against humanity' or 'war crimes'. we as politicians must clearly support the continued existence of these populations and guarantee their inalienable rights. only such support can end the suffering and mass displacement of christians.
madam president, commissioner, millions of citizens throughout the european union are involved in the breeding of pets, and although we are dealing here in plenary with important security issues related to migration, to war and conflict, i am convinced that this subject, i.e. the conditions for the breeding of pets across the european union, has its place in the european parliament and i thank mrs sommer for having advocated the adoption of this subject for today's debate. the 2003 regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the movement of pet animals specifies several requirements that every keeper must meet in order for his animal to be moved across the european union, i.e. the animal must be tattooed or vaccinated, must be identified and must have a passport and a vaccination certificate. i believe that if the different systems for registering pet animals in the different member states were to be harmonised, this would greatly help and make current practice more efficient than if each member state had its own system. it has already been mentioned that these systems need to be compatible in order to be able to use these data interchangeably. i believe that it's not about building a new building and building a new office, it's about connecting these systems. and for that to happen, there has to be some standardization of the data that's being fed in. in this context, i would like to ask the commission whether it is planning to introduce a system of labelling and registration of domestic animals throughout the european union or whether it is planning to introduce compatible systems that will only apply to the cross-border movement of animals, as in the case of the 2003 regulation.
mr president, i come from a country which was outside the integration process for 40 years – not because of our own will, but because things turned out like that after the second world war. while it is up to the brits to judge, i can tell you that it makes a hell of a difference whether you are inside the european union or outside – with all its imperfections, weaknesses, difficulties and disagreements. but it is for our british colleagues to judge. i can only say that we want the uk in; we need the uk in, and that is why i am ready to accept an agreement which i find problematic on a number of provisions – i am ready to pay that price, i am ready to sacrifice. on a second and related point: this cannot be the end. this has to be the start of reforms that the european union badly needs in a number of areas. some of them are on the agenda today, and some of them are yet to come. my final remark is on migration: president tusk, if you look at the european council conclusions (and i know you have put a lot of effort into it), this is not what will deliver. march has to be the month when we deliver in concrete ways and when the first fruits really come, so that citizens will understand and believe that we are on the right track.
i welcome the agreement between the european union and the united kingdom as an expression of the common will of the 28 to continue to work together on terms that are acceptable to the united kingdom and the other 27 member states and that make sense. of course, we must be aware that the agreement also implies the need to negotiate legislative amendments, and these will be discussed here in the european parliament. i think that the boundary is the shared values and the treaties that will not be changed, and that condition has been met. i respect politicians who are able to resist populism and i am glad that there are also uk members of parliament who have joined the campaign to keep britain in the eu, as mr fox of the ecr has said. in contrast, there is a strong populism here, for example from mr farage, who misinterpreted the remarks of the czech prime minister, who warned of the possible wave of disintegration that the british referendum could have, but of course the czech government does not plan such a referendum. however, of course, there is this risk in the event that the referendum does not go well. i personally appreciate the great activity of president donald tusk and i want him to take the same action, with the same energy, to address the migration crisis. (the rapporteur has agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i am convinced that the agreement is in the pipeline, when the common market and the values you mentioned will be preserved. of course, we will discuss legislative measures here, but the principles of the common single market should not be compromised.
in writing. although unemployment in europe is gradually declining, up to 23 million active citizens are still out of work. there is one figure that i find even more frightening, and that is the 123 million europeans at risk of or affected by poverty and social exclusion. it is therefore necessary that member states do not overlook this problem. the eu budget must not continue to be drained of every euro. instead, we must ensure that investments are directed to the areas that need them most and where they will bring the greatest added value. the youth employment initiative can serve as an example in this respect. i do not want to tolerate any further widening of the gap between the inhabitants of the poorest and the richest regions, because in the long term this will only bring further instability to the european continent. the problem of european unemployment goes far deeper than just choosing the right investments from the european or national budgets. policies need to be properly coordinated not only in national negotiations but also at the highest european level. i would therefore like to see a joint meeting of the employment, social policy, health and consumer protection council and the economic and financial affairs council. breaking down the wall between these two formations can help create quality jobs and a fairer distribution of wealth.
i would like to thank rapporteur heinz becker and all the shadow rapporteurs for their really excellent cooperation. the negotiations on the final version of the report took quite a long time and i myself tabled over 100 amendments. we must also thank the luxembourg presidency, which has much to be thanked for finding a final agreement. the eures portal is now available, which responds to the current requirements of the labour market and can be an effective tool to promote employment and mobility. the main achievements are the extension of the portal to include positions for trainees and apprentices, or the inclusion of offers from private employers and private recruitment agencies. for many of us, the possibility of dreaming of working abroad, of choosing to work abroad, and of doing so from the comfort of our own home, was for many years completely out of reach and unimaginable. today, free movement of labour is one of the european union's greatest benefits, yet labour mobility in the eu is still ten times lower than in the united states. i believe that the new eures will be the right impetus to launch a new approach to work abroad for europeans, especially young people. i am convinced that the modernised eures portal is one of the right ways to remove barriers and address labour market problems across europe. we owe it to our young people.
i would like to thank mr becker in particular for his hard work on the eures report. the final text, which was supported by a large majority in the empl committee vote, clearly demonstrates that it is a sound text and deserves this support. i am also pleased that the amendments have been adopted, including the amendment i tabled in the sense of applicants who meet the requirements and criteria for authorisation so that the member state can issue the authorisation. so that there is no doubt that the authorisation can be issued. i am therefore very pleased with this clear definition in the report. i also welcome the fact that this labour market policy remains fully within the competence of the member states, that subsidiarity is respected and that, of course, the aim is to reduce bureaucracy and ensure good implementation. i therefore welcome the statement by the commissioner, who has promised to monitor implementation and report back. thank you all for your good work.
facilitating the mobility of workers within the european union can certainly be seen as a positive step that can effectively and flexibly address inequalities in the labour market. but there is a downside. unfortunately, with huge differences in wage levels between countries, there is an outflow of skilled workers from poorer european countries to richer ones. this is causing huge problems in some industries. i will take the health sector as an example, where countries that leave under better conditions have an acute shortage of health workers, and this directly threatens the availability of health care. public colleges provide education here, but graduates soon leave the country. is the solution for these countries to import health workers from even poorer parts of the world? is this a sustainable model of the european labour market? i guess not. this is not the problem of the eures network.
i would also like to point out that 1.1 million eu citizens are currently employed in crossborder work. also, 7 million eu citizens are employed in other eu member states. that's, i think, very substantial. i think that shows the values that need to be mentioned at this time, namely the freedom of establishment and the freedom to work guaranteed by the four fundamental freedoms of the eu. and so this also gives rise to a number of induced criteria that can be evaluated, and that is gdp growth. on the other hand, what mrs sehnall said is also true, namely that there is an outflow of qualified personnel. this is also something that member states have to deal with, and to some extent they have to fight this eu value in their legal systems. it is essential to me that eures has been reformed and reformed in a way that still further enforces greater participation of skilled labour in the labour market.
i consider the issue of drugs to be as relevant today as, for example, the issue of migration. unfortunately, i feel that drugs are still a backdrop to all discussions. in recent years, new trends have emerged that the international community must address if it is to prevent the spread of drugs. when i look at the statistics, it's very clear that the list of emerging drugs is growing all the time, for example, there were 101 new drugs reported in 2014. this phenomenon has been accompanied by an increase in drug supply-related crime for some time. perhaps the most dangerous is the illegal drug trade on the internet. in europe, there are already several thousand online shops where even adolescents and children can buy drugs and other intoxicants. we must therefore seek solutions not only at european level but also at global level and work to prevent this negative phenomenon effectively.
i agree with my predecessors on the role of prevention, and certainly the importance of not excluding people who are drug users and have thus failed in their lives. and also in supporting organizations that are involved in bringing these people to the next life. i would also like to draw attention to the problem of really new psychoactive substances, which my predecessor, mr zdechovsky, also mentioned, in the context of the criminal law. it is not just the number of new substances discovered, but also the total volume of these substances that have been detected, for example in the european area. in 2013, it was 2.3 tons. this is a huge amount, and given that these new psychoactive substances must be adequately described, including from the point of view of criminal law, the question arises as to how to combat them other than in the international field. the debate today therefore really concerns the eu's mandate for representation at the un general assembly and the specific points that will be summarised in the common position. i hope it's the new psychoactive drugs.
madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, tackling the migration crisis is a crucial issue for the european union. but i still see no significant change in the protection of the external borders and the establishment of peace in the middle east. it is incomprehensible to me that the decision to establish a border and coast guard has not yet been taken, while the system of compulsory quotas, which i did not agree to, would have been approved relatively quickly, but it still does not work. meanwhile, in the czech republic, we accept refugees ourselves and voluntarily, although on a much smaller scale than in germany and other countries. i support the initiative of the foundation, which has provided asylum in the czech republic for 153 iraqi christians fleeing islamist terror. it's a small number, but it's specific people, specific families, specific children that i know personally, and i'm glad we were able to help save them. in our country, of course, there is also disagreement, but there are also many gestures of solidarity and help. people are willing to help, but they can't feel threatened. it's a simple equation. the more consistent and rapid the european institutions are in their response to this crisis, the more willing the authorities, local authorities and individuals will be to accept refugees.
one of the most serious problems facing europe today and that it is currently facing is undoubtedly terrorism. not only in this context, we rightly hear that we should address the causes of terrorism, not just the consequences. that is certainly a very valid objection. as for the causes, i personally believe that the major factor behind the rise of terrorism is saudi arabia's policies. i have previously seriously considered naming the role and function of this state in such a graphic way, but i think it is no longer appropriate to be more reserved at this point. i think it's also not in dispute that this state provides intellectual and material support to terrorist organizations. the european union cannot continue to pretend that everything is fine with the islamic state, even though saudi arabia has been falling into the shadow of the islamic state in this respect. it is time to act and to pursue a policy towards saudi arabia that will ultimately lead to the complete elimination of support for terrorist groups. today's saudi arabia is a threat, and the european union must deal with it accordingly.
in writing.– the office of the european ombudsman has proved that an institution such as this one is much needed in the european union. in 2014, the ombudsman’s office significantly contributed to an increase in the transparency and integrity of other european institutions and the union as whole. the ombudsman initiated several important activities, including the establishment of the so-called own-initiative inquiry, which has addressed fundamental issues at european level. i think it is essential that it looked into the composition of the commission’s expert groups, transparency in lobbying and the work of the agencies. the ombudsman’s new strategy is also very welcome for further promotion of good public administration. i would like to encourage the institution to continue its good work, to continue its pressure on other european bodies and to prevail as a good role model of integrity. the european institutions, on the other hand, should comply with the ombudsman’s recommendations and make transparency their priority. that will not only have an increased impact on the reputation of the european union in the eyes of the citizens, but it will especially protect the union’s financial interests at eu level.
author. in any event, i would like to thank the commission for publishing its assessment of the agreement with philip morris international. unfortunately, the fact that we had to wait quite a long time for this key document to be published, and that the publication date was only yesterday, did not help our in-depth examination of it. despite these facts, i would like to share my views on this issue on behalf of our group. the agreement with philip morris international has partially fulfilled its purpose, as there has been a significant decrease in the smuggling of goods into the eu since its conclusion, and substantial changes in legislation have been introduced. we now have the tobacco products directive, which is a pan-european cigarette tracking and tracing system from 2019 on the one hand, and the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, ratified by five member states, on the other. unfortunately, at the same time, there has been a significant increase in the market share of non-branded cigarettes. the alde group has always been synonymous with the fight against the illegal trafficking of human beings, counterfeiting or smuggling of goods. we intend to continue the zero tolerance trend in this area, because these phenomena are not only harmful to our economy, but are the driving force behind the grey economy and the black market associated with organised crime. any loophole could serve as an open door for criminal groups. it is therefore our duty to ensure that illicit trade in tobacco products has no place at all in the eu, starting with active prevention and ending with sanctions to the extent of eradication. i must admit, commissioner, that i do not find the commission's published findings very convincing. there is no sufficient data to clearly demonstrate a link between the agreement with philip morris international and the reduction in the number of seizures. after reading the commission's opinion, i rather got the impression that only a few hypotheses are presented here. i therefore believe that we should conclude another agreement for this so-called transitional period before the world health organization framework convention on tobacco control comes into force. and that we will help to combat the current problem of illicit tobacco and that we will use all measures that have been proven to work, such as the tracking and tracing obligations. how do you intend, commissioner, to prepare a fully transparent political and legislative framework with the utmost responsibility in the future?
i also join my colleagues in the house who do not support the continuation of this agreement. in my opinion, it is not good for the consumer or the taxpayer. in my view, we must also agree with those who call for a certain degree of action by the commission and transparency in the proceedings. i really miss that. i also lack honesty in those discussions, because the way many have acted so far is not honest in my opinion. i would also like to take up the issue of the contributions which reflect the consumer's right to choose in this matter, including for tobacco consumption. they were one-off contributions, but they were also resonant. i don't think that a public authority like the eu or the state should go against tobacco consumption. it is not good for health, that is certain, and i think we should rather put obstacles in the way and fight the smuggling networks.
in writing. ‒ normally, i would abstain from voting on a member state wishing to take an act, such as concluding a treaty, but in this case the member state must ask the eu for permission. i am against the principle that any member state must ask for permission for anything.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of austria signing and ratifying, and malta of acceding to the convention ensuring that judicial and extrajudicial documents are served abroad, and that the organisation of mutual judicial assistance is improved. i believe that a single regime for the service of documents in cross-border relations with third countries is in the interest both of the eu as a whole and of austria and malta, as it will allow a quicker, less bureaucratic and more effective access to justice.
in writing. - i voted against it. i don't agree with the principle that the republic of san marino should transfer taxes from savings to other states. such an agreement is to be the business of san marino and the state, which wants to negotiate with him for the transfer of money.
in writing. i support the agreement between the european union and the republic of san marino on the automatic exchange of financial account information, concluded on 8 december 2015, which aims to deepen international tax cooperation and tax compliance. under this agreement, the eu and the republic of san marino will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each national resident in the partner country of the agreement from the beginning of 2017. i am in favour of the republic of san marino applying more stringent measures equivalent to those laid down in the eu legal framework. as a result of this new agreement, tax authorities in the member states and san marino will be able to identify correctly and unambiguously the taxpayers concerned and to apply and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations, and unnecessary further investigation will be avoided.
in writing. ‒ equal treatment before the law is a topic i have always cared about. this is why i voted in favour of the eu-san marino agreement to improve international tax cooperation and compliance and to fight tax fraud and tax evasion. this will allow the eu and san marino to automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each other’s residents from 2017 onwards. i hope that this measure will contribute to a more equal treatment of citizens, create a culture of tax compliance, avoid unnecessary bureaucratic and time-consuming investigations, and permit tax incomes saved by these measures to be invested in job creation.
in writing. ‒ as a socialist democrat, european union enlargement and integration with our european neighbours remains a strong and credible eu policy with the rule of law at its centre. the progression of european integration, the peace and prosperity that it has given, must not distance us from the fundamental principles on which the process is based and should not be overshadowed by the recent economic difficulties experienced by member states. the accession of croatia to the convention will allow croatia to experience full eu membership and further protect the european communities’ financial interests.
in writing. the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests ensures that criminal law effectively contributes to the protection of the european communities' financial interests and combats fraud and corruption affecting community revenue and expenditure. the protection of the financial interests of the european union is a key element of the union's political agenda in order to consolidate and strengthen the confidence of citizens and to ensure the proper use of their money. it is necessary, therefore, at union level to investigate cases of fraud and irregularities in the implementation of the union budget, to take measures to prevent such cases and to protect the financial interests of the union in general. i therefore support the draft recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 july 1995 on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union, the protocol to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and other documents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the accession of croatia to the convention on the financial interests of the union which protects the financial interests of the eu and its taxpayers by providing a harmonised legal definition of fraud and adopting criminal penalties for fraud. i believe that this will enable the council to determine the date on which these conventions shall enter into force for croatia and to make all the necessary adjustments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is nothing at present to prevent croatia from adopting the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and from entering into force as soon as possible. as rapporteur of this report, i have explicitly supported the approval of croatia's accession to the convention as soon as possible. the convention, together with its subsequent protocols, aims to protect the financial interests of the union from criminal offences and has recently become increasingly necessary. it is therefore necessary that all acceding states accede to it.
in writing. ‒ free movement of workers is one of the key elements for the development of a more integrated labour market in the union, including in border regions, which allows greater labour mobility, thereby increasing diversity and contributing to the social inclusion and integration of people excluded from the labour market throughout the union. it also helps to identify suitable skills for job vacancies and to remove barriers to the labour market. the adoption of the european parliament and council regulation on a european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and further integration of labour markets was therefore a fairly clear matter and i am glad to have been able to support it. why our colleague mach was the only czech to vote against is a mystery to me.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support legislation that introduces a mandatory eurobarometer. state databases are not going to help, and supranational databases are not going to help any more. private servers help the unemployed and employers better.
in writing. the adoption of this important regulation is another step forward in the field of worker mobility. our long-term objective is undoubtedly to reduce unemployment in the eu, and i believe that eures could be one of the keys to this persistent problem. although the free movement of workers is an integral part of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union, the rate of such mobility remains relatively low in view of the size of the labour market and the number of people of working age. eures therefore aims to create the most comprehensive pan-european and transparent database of job vacancies and jobseeker profiles, which will also offer opportunities for students and apprentices in the form of traineeships and job training. however, it will be necessary to focus on joint cooperation between member states and eures in the sense of setting up national coordination offices to provide general support and assistance to all eures organisations operating in their territories. this will not only allow all jobseekers easy access to information on working and living conditions in all eu member states, but also enable them to facilitate contact between jobseekers and employees.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which amends the european union's eures regulation, in agreement with the council. after formal consecration by the council, it will come into force in a matter of months. the freedom for every citizen of the european union to move to any other member state for work is one of the fundamental freedoms and one of the greatest achievements of european integration. nevertheless, labour mobility is currently very low, at only 0.29% per year. eures was supposed to promote mobility, but it has not yet succeeded despite registering around 1.2 million users, which can be considered a decent number. in a situation where some eu countries greece, spain, croatia are facing high unemployment and other countries have surplus jobs, it is essential that jobseekers have a view of the offers from across the european union. this is precisely why eures exists, yet it has not fulfilled its function sufficiently. i therefore consider that it should be revised. the positive aspect of the proposal is that it does not represent any new cost for the european union budget. i would particularly like to stress the removal of the existing administrative restrictions on the transmission of job vacancy data to the eures portal and i also consider it crucial that the commission proposal does not interfere with the labour market policy of the individual member states, which remains entirely within their competence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the introduction of the eures network, creating the largest possible job-search platform which can be consulted by anyone in europe, encouraging the free movement of workers and the labour market’s further integration. helping workers to obtain information about employment opportunities where their skills are needed and ensuring their mobility inside the union, as well as increasing cooperation between labour markets, are actions key to improving and accelerating employment inside the eu. this is particularly important for cross-border regions. in addition, freedom of movement is one of the four basic freedoms on which the eu is founded.
in writing. ‒ the free movement of workers is one of the fundamental freedoms of the european union, and that is why i also support this report, which contains important proposals for improving the eures network. i believe that the eures network needs to be a truly effective tool for both jobseekers and employers. especially for young people. i therefore very much welcome the proposal to include apprenticeships and traineeships in the eures database. both apprenticeships and traineeships provide a better position for young people in subsequent job search.
i also declare that i voted in favour of this report and that the reason was clear. i think it's necessary to appreciate the progress that tunisia has made in the five years since it joined, let's say, the club of democratic states. it is essential to me that this appreciation of their progress should be, even though i do not deny that there is a certain impact on olive oil producers. on the other hand, i think that we have to appreciate this country as such, even if there are certain negative consequences. these are the negative consequences of a certain freer market and if we want to help tunisia, i think that this price and this tax is acceptable.
in writing. - i'm for free trade, not restrictions and exceptions.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the draft report on tunisia. i am fully aware of the difficult economic situation there, which has been further exacerbated by the attacks of 18 march 2015 in tunis and 26 june 2015 in sousse. the eu is expressing its support for the republic of tunisia and its commitment to assisting tunisia's economic development. therefore, the commission proposes a temporary unilateral tariff quota with zero duty of 35 000 tonnes per year, i.e. a total of 70 000 tonnes, for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the union, in the form of autonomous trade measures, without increasing the total volume of imports. this quota should be granted for a period of 2 years, from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the tunisian authorities for the construction of a new airport in tunis. the tunisian olive sector indirectly provides employment to more than one million people and represents one fifth of the total agricultural employment in the country. moreover, olive oil is the main agricultural product exported by tunisia. that is why i supported the report.
in writing. i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council introducing exceptional autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia. the eu is thus seeking to help tunisia in its difficult economic situation, which is caused, inter alia, by the recent terrorist attacks, and thus to avoid a slowdown in the transformation of the tunisian economy and possible political fluctuations that could have an adverse impact on the stability of the country. by specifically standing by the tunisians to support their economic development, the european union is also acting in favour of the tunisian democratic process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this emergency measure to boost tunisia’s economy, which is currently facing serious economic difficulties as a result of a series of terrorist attacks in 2015, in addition to an economy already suffering from the unstable post-revolutionary context. i hope that this measure, which will offer a temporary, unilateral duty-free tariff rate quota of 35 000 tonnes annually for tunisia’s exports of olive oil to the european union, tunisia’s main agricultural export, can bring temporary relief to the tunisian people.
in writing. - i'm fundamentally against this redistribution of money. what makes this redistribution worse is the fact that it is the result of normal free market activity, where some sectors have to move to countries with more efficient production, and also the fact that money is going to belgium a rich member with a very generous social network.
in writing. - today we voted on a report that was supported across the political spectrum. we approve the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the regions of namur and hainaut in belgium, where the number of jobs decreased by 19% between 2007 and 2012. the egf was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the crisis in the glass industry has led to the closure of several enterprises in the regions and, most recently, to the dismissal of more than 250 employees of the glassworks. the funds provided will be used for further education or training and the search for a new job. in the final vote, i voted for the report.
in writing. – i am pleased with the vote of support that parliament has given this report today and thus contributed to the better situation of workers in southern belgium. the fund is generally used to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the measures should improve job security in positions that are susceptible to trade patterns and lessen unemployment in these sectors. i would like to note the improved procedure put in place by the commission, following parliament’s request for the accelerated release of grant. the pressure that the new timetable has given will most likely increase the potential impact on the effectiveness of case instruction and rapid implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure which enables workers and self-employed people who have lost their jobs due to the rapid changes induced by globalisation to rapidly reintegrate the labour market. through this fund, workers will be provided with training, guidance, job-search facilitation, transfer of experience, support for enterprise creation and collective projects, as well as job-search and training allowances. i believe that this measure is vital to reduce unemployment periods to their maximum, encourage labour flexibility and thus increase the competitiveness and sustainability of the european market.
in writing. i supported the drawdown of eur 1 095 544 from the european globalisation adjustment fund because it is one of the typical examples of the impact of globalisation on the european labour market. the glass industry is one of the sectors that has already suffered from production decreases in the past and is not different at present. i am confident that this financial support will help the 412 displaced workers as well as young people in these affected belgian regions to find jobs, further education, start up businesses or collective projects.
in writing. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i am of the opinion that the european semester is generally ill-conceived and this resolution could not change the fact that it focuses primarily on the areas of competitiveness, the single fiscal policy, the euro area and largely ignores social issues. moreover, i do not think that the spring european council should remain the main moment during which the eu's political priorities are defined. the european parliament can only express an opinion on this event, which i do not consider sufficient.
in writing. i supported the report, which i regard as an important contribution to ensuring effective coordination of the economic policies of the member states. i voted in favour of the amendment calling for the use of the efsi to be limited to not only strategic but also economically viable projects, as i believe that the economic viability aspect should also be decisive. i also supported the emphasis on the need to remove barriers to entry into the labour market, especially for young people. this is one of the major obstacles to successful economic development and should therefore be given increased attention.
in writing. ‒ if recovery in the eu is progressively gaining ground in the eu, member states need to continue to pursue structural reforms to make their economies more competitive and build confidence in their economic and business environment to incentivise investors to invest. however, this report calls past efforts into question by recommending an increase in public spending, being hesitant on modernising economies and shielding against labour market reforms, which would lower the barriers to entry into the labour market, particularly for the young. these are the reasons why i voted against it. indeed, it does not strike the right balance between demand and supply side reforms. it falls short of requesting barriers to entry into the labour market be removed, of more explicitly prescribing reforms such as modernising economies, making social security systems more sustainable and promoting innovation and entrepreneurship. moreover it does not recommend european fund for structural investments (efsi) projects to be economically viable. in this context, i could not support it.
in writing. ‒ while i agree with the principles set out in the report, i could not support it as a whole, as its final version includes several paragraphs asking for an alignment of minimal wages, which i find highly problematic. in order to attack the issue of wage dispersion we need to address first the obstacles and rigidities of the eu’s labour market which exist in its member states and to push administratively the level of income. only a truly open and competitive labour market can enhance economic convergence within the european union.
‒ the european semester for economic policy coordination is an important tool for setting eu priorities in support of job creation and growth by promoting convergence and following examples of good practice in eu member states. employment and social performance are now one of the key issues in europe and are also the focus of the european semester. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mrs sofia ribeir, for the excellent work she has done on this subject and on this report. the report covers all the key issues and the recommendations mentioned are close to my heart in particular the promotion of entrepreneurship among young people or initiatives to support new innovative projects and start-ups. however, i have decided to vote against this report. the reason is the call for intervention in national wage systems which appears in several points in this report and which i cannot agree with.
in writing. i believe that the european semester is generally wrongly set up and even this resolution could not change the fact that it focuses primarily on the areas of competitiveness, the single fiscal policy, the euro area and largely ignores social issues. the european parliament resolution of 25 february 2016 on the european semester for economic policy coordination: an employment and social dimension in the annual growth survey 2016 is primarily about social issues, but it simply does not have the power to transform the european semester to become a truly social one.
in writing. i voted against this report, in particular against paragraph 19: the european parliament considers that wage disparities increase inequality and harm the productivity and competitiveness of enterprises; calls on the commission and the member states to implement measures to improve the quality of jobs in order to reduce labour market segmentation, combined with measures to raise minimum wages to an appropriate level in line with the principle of subsidiarity and to strengthen collective bargaining and the position of workers in wage setting systems, in order to reduce wage disparities; believes that all this should be done to support overall demand and economic recovery, reduce wage inequality and combat working poverty. none of this is a matter for the european parliament or the european commission. government intervention can only make the free market worse.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination and the annual growth analysis for 2016. we have long been against the way the european semester project is currently set up. it focuses only on competitiveness and a single fiscal policy, while neglecting priorities such as poverty reduction, combating unemployment and social exclusion. while i find many positive elements in the document presented, such as the need for structural reforms, respect for budgetary discipline and increased investment in the eu, i remain convinced that a single fiscal policy, as called for in the draft document, does not represent a long-term positive solution in view of the specific economic circumstances of the individual member states. that is why i voted against the report in the final vote.
in writing. i abstained in the final vote, partly because the passage calling on the commission and the member states to take measures to raise minimum wages remained in the text. i am afraid that this is aimed at competition in the internal market and could result in the harmonisation of the laws of the member states in the area of pay, which i do not consider to be economically desirable. as member states have different economic levels, we should also respect the different wage levels. i also find it troubling to call on the commission and the member states to step up their efforts to tackle the problem of social and wage dumping in the eu. i see in this challenge, once again, a hidden attempt to restrict competition in the internal market and to remove the competitive advantages of the new member states by means of artificial legislative interventions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it does not address the right issues. indeed, the report adopted calls for increasing flexibility in public deficit spending and it does not recommend that european fund for structural investments (efsi) projects be economically viable and moreover it introduces bureaucracy and does not intend to remove barriers to entry to the labour market and modernise the economy. it also addresses the migration crisis and i do not believe this is the right place for that.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that there needs to be further cooperation between governments, companies, social partners and educational institutions in the transfer of good practice, which leads to a better integration of the education system with the requirements of the current labour market. i also agree with the need to invest in young people's entrepreneurship. however, i think it is equally important to find the most effective solution for unemployment among people aged 55 and over. these people can offer businesses their long-term and considerable experience in their fields of expertise.
i also supported this draft report. the reason is that the single internal market is a fundamental value that european integration has achieved over several decades. it is undoubtedly the motivation why businesses, citizens and, of course, states should insist on further deepening integration today. i would also like to emphasize that the report presented to us is very accurate in its conception of the terms competitiveness, enhancing competitiveness, investment and innovation. i would also say that cohesion policy, which removes disadvantages, is in a way part of the internal market. it is also a driver of employment growth, competitiveness and innovation. these are all values which, in my view, make it worthwhile to further develop the internal market, because if the market operates without obstacles, it will undoubtedly bring economic growth and employment growth.
in writing. ‒ while i voted in favour of this report, i regret the adoption of paragraph 35 on the sharing economy in its current form. it should not be our role to try to force new industries to fit into the frameworks and rules of the traditional industries they replace. they have completely different business models, based on two different technological eras. as history has shown, it is futile to try to hold back progress with protectionism measures. technological revolutions lead to more jobs and growth than they ever destroy. the times they are a-changing and the sooner we as legislators understand this, the better.
in writing. the report from the imco committee, of which i am a member, deals with the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2016. we have long been against the way the european semester project is currently set up. it focuses solely on the area of competitiveness and the benefits of the single market for economic growth and competition policy. other major priorities, such as poverty reduction, combating unemployment and social exclusion, are secondary, if not completely neglected. the report also highlights the importance of the development of e-government and points out its shortcomings, such as the lack of protection of personal data, the problems that older citizens will experience with the system, etc. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. i supported the report which stressed the importance of a functioning internal market in the context of sound public financial management in the member states. the report rightly points out that the commission should present an annual report on the obstacles to the single market in individual member states and in the eu as a whole and, within the framework of the country-specific recommendations, issue recommendations aimed at removing these obstacles. i also agree with the emphasis on closer cooperation and exchange of information and best practices between national market surveillance authorities in order to effectively tackle the various forms of unfair competition in the single market, including the high number of illegal and non-compliant products which cause high costs for compliant businesses and present high risks for consumers. in this context, i am convinced that the eu council should speed up the adoption of the package of measures to ensure market safety and market surveillance, which threatens the safety of products in the eu.
in writing. i supported the report by ms stihler on the governance of the single market in the context of the 2016 european semester, as it is an important contribution to the debate on how to improve the functioning of the internal market. the report not only addresses the issue of including the internal market in the european semester and how to achieve better policy coordination in particular, but also identifies a number of obstacles that consumers still face in the internal market, including geo-blocking, different rules for delivery of parcels or the lack of harmonised rules on contracts and consumer protection, especially for online shopping. i particularly welcome the fact that the report specifically calls for the immediate abolition of unjustified territorial restrictions known as geo-blocking and thus for an end to unjustified discrimination in access to goods and services, but also price discrimination based on geographical location or nationality. any form of discrimination in the internal market is totally unacceptable to me.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which focuses on growth opportunities within the single market and calls for the single market to take a more prominent role in the european semester. indeed, the single market governance report is one of two annual contributions from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) to the european semester process. it focuses on growth opportunities within the single market and calls for the single market to take a more prominent role in the european semester. the rapporteur managed to draft compromise amendments that covered most of the contentious issues, e.g. on implementation of country-specific recommendations, infringement procedures, professional qualifications, the sharing economy and public procurement. as a consequence, i decided to support it . the single market is key to growth and job creation in europe and alde is committed to a deeper single market within all policy areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because if the european semester is to support economic growth and stabilise the eu economies, it must also include the single market and policies to support its completion. the european semester is intended to increase the coordination of member states' fiscal and economic policies, which will boost employment growth and competitiveness. it is more than desirable that trade barriers are removed, while all 28 eu member states are committed to respecting existing legislation. it is also necessary to monitor and evaluate progress in the integration of the single market on a regular basis.
in writing. ‒ the trade relations between the eu and tunisia are one the key elements for tunisian political and economic stability. the negotiations on an ambitious free trade agreement that has been launched last year aim to further strengthen the relationship between both parties. both sides need such a close trade relationship. it will help, among others things, tunisia to promote stability, democratic reforms and peace not only in the country but in the entire maghreb region. for that reason i was in favour of the inta report.
in writing. - i disagree with the motion. tunisia is a country with serious economic problems, but this form of aid is not the right one. the eu-tunisia trade liberalisation would benefit the most companies involved in the export of olive oil from tunisia to the eu. temporarily, there could be an increase in jobs in tunisia as a result of a closer trade partnership with the eu based on olive oil exports to eu countries. in the long term, however, this form of cooperation would be detrimental to tunisia, as there would be a real risk of plundering the land in order to obtain the maximum benefit without any sign of investment in local infrastructure, etc. the impact of such measures on the union producers of olive oil, in particular the southern eu states, would also have to be assessed. tunisia should focus primarily on addressing internal political and social problems.
in writing. - i voted against this report. i am in favour of free trade, not import restrictions, as in paragraphs 47 and 48 for example, where the commission is called upon to negotiate the implementation of high standards and high quality in the sanitary and phytosanitary field and to address veterinary problems and problems in the control of meat, fruit and vegetables. studies show that strict european rules are too expensive for importers and the price europeans pay for them is not commensurate with the risk, due to more expensive goods.
‒ tunisia is one of our closest neighbours on the mediterranean border and a long-standing trading partner of the european union. i voted to open free trade negotiations with this country, whose economy was very negatively affected by the terrorist attacks last year. i strongly believe that this fta will help tunisia to gradually create new, quality jobs and promote inclusive growth. i voted for a free trade negotiation that will take place in stages. the tunisian economy should be open asymmetrically to european and world trade, while ensuring the protection of the most sensitive sectors and promoting employment in the problem areas and inland regions. i supported this deal because i believe it will help stabilize the country and consolidate democracy. in this respect, it is important that civil society is involved in the negotiations and that financial and technical assistance is provided to tunisia in a transparent manner. i hope that the opening of negotiations and the subsequent conclusion of a free trade agreement will lead to deeper cooperation in other areas, including education and scientific cooperation, to the mutual benefit of both parties. i also believe that the agreement with the union will lead to the introduction of higher social and labour standards, which tunisia is lagging behind, and that the european commission will not only focus on current account balance values but will also not neglect the issue of respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the adoption of an eu-tunisia trade agreement, not only because of the longstanding and close relationship between tunisia and the european union, which began in 1969. i believe that this ambitious agreement will not only bring the eu and tunisia closer economically, but also contribute to the political and democratic stabilisation of the country. tunisia is the only country in the middle east and north africa region to have made a successful transition to democracy following the events known as the arab spring. after adopting a new constitution on 26 january 2014 to protect human rights and freedoms, the country has become a model for other countries in this area. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented in accordance with the union's macro-financial assistance programmes. tunisia is facing low growth and rising unemployment, and the agreement should help to address the main pain points of its economy, in particular the diversification of its economy, which is now mainly agricultural.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of negotiations for an eu-tunisia free trade agreement, as an operational economy bringing about job creation for young people and opportunities for foreign investment is now of utmost importance for the broached democratic transition to succeed. this trade partnership represents not only an opportunity for growth and closer ties between the economies of tunisia and the eu, but it can also become a stepping stone to facilitate the development of the mena region as a whole, and set an example for the entire region.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution. the establishment of a trade partnership, which will allow for a deepening of trade relations between tunisia and the union, will not only promote economic growth but may also contribute to the democratic and political stabilisation of the country. tunisia is the only country in the middle east and north africa region to have made the transition to democracy. the constitution that was created is a very good example. however, there is still a lot of work to be done to implement it. tunisia is thus setting a good example for other countries in the region to follow through on their political transformation and reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it gives a realistic feedback of activities of the european ombudsman’s office. i was concerned, however, by the quite negative tone of the original report with regards to the ttip negotiations. the text, as adopted now, is fairly balanced, commending the openness of the ttip talks as promoted by the european commission. it has to said that no negotiations ever before had this level of transparency allowing close public scrutiny during the process.
in writing. ‒ although i have great respect for the european ombudsman, i decided to abstain from voting on her 2014 activity report. i am disappointed that the report welcomes the progress made in the openness of the ttip negotiations, as i am not personally aware of any. they still do behind closed doors and then they go to parties paid for by multinational corporations. however, i commend the ombudsman for her inquiries into citizens' right to participate in the eu decision-making process, in particular the inquiry into the functioning of the european citizens' initiative (eci). i also welcome the increased and necessary attention that the ombudsman is devoting to transparency in the area of lobbying and her efforts to introduce a mandatory transparency register that would allow citizens to find out who is trying to influence eu decision-makers.
in writing. the report assessing the ombudsman's work in 2014 contains a number of positive elements and shows that the ombudsman takes her office very seriously and responsibly, as evidenced by the increase in the number of inquiries opened, including on her own initiative. the ombudsman was thus addressing one of the key areas for me, namely transparency in the work of the european institutions or, for example, the issue of the so-called revolving door of high-ranking eu officials. however, since the report highlights significant progress in the transparency of the ttip negotiations, which i am not convinced of at all, as i have not seen any greater openness, i abstained in the final vote on the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2014 annual report presented by the european ombudsman and i am very pleased that she has been re-elected. the current ombudsman has demonstrated that, unlike her predecessor, she is not afraid to make greater use of own-initiative inquiries and to be proactive in introducing new internal rules. as one of the representatives of the european citizens, i am very pleased that it is helping to break down the opacity of the institutions and activities of the european union. i consider it very important to prevent conflicts of interest and to investigate possible cases thoroughly. it is clear that otherwise the confidence of european citizens in the european union will only have a downward trend. the european commission's negotiations with the united states on ttip are currently affecting citizens' trust. a large number of residents complain about the lack of transparency. i therefore hope that the ombudsman will take appropriate steps in the near future to increase understanding of the chapters in question. i supported the ombudsman's continued monitoring of the advisory groups within the european commission which advise her on the implementation of budgetary-major policies, including agriculture, and her future cooperation with the european court of auditors. there must be no further gaps in transparency in the implementation of the budget and the institutions of the union and the member states must undoubtedly respond to this ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ i was very pleased to receive the report on the activities of the european ombudsman, which confirms the importance of this office. as a social democrat, it is very important to me that citizens' rights are fully respected, especially at eu level. for this reason, i have great respect and appreciation for the work of emily o'reilly, who was re-elected as european ombudsman on the basis of her efforts. its outstanding performance has enabled, for example, greater openness in the ongoing ttip negotiations, but also the policy-making of the european medicines agency, which plays a key role in the transparency of clinical trial data. the eurobarometer results show that citizens' trust in the eu is gradually declining, which is why it is important to continue to support the european ombudsman's role in promoting transparency and good governance of the eu institutions. the initiatives coming directly from citizens can bring about important changes in the openness and accessibility of the european institutions, which in turn will strengthen their trust in the work of the european union. access to information on the progress of the negotiations or the activities of the individual union institutions must remain a fundamental right for all citizens of the european union.
in writing. i supported today's report by the european parliament on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman for 2014, as i think that the overall conclusion of satisfaction with the activities of the european ombudsman can be agreed. the ombudsman plays an important role in the system of eu institutions, since eu citizens have a right to good administration, even vis-à-vis the institutions of the european union. the european ombudsman contributes to improving the performance of the administration at union level not only through his activities responding to citizens' complaints but also through his own-initiative inquiries addressing some of the most important issues in the area of good administration, such as access to documents, conflicts of interest or the transparency register. the usefulness of the european ombudsman can be documented by the example of the european citizens' initiative, where the ombudsman's office drew attention to the need to change some rules in order to make the initiative an effective and publicly accessible and understandable tool.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the annual report for 2014 on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014. the ombudsman plays a vital role in helping eu institutions become more open, effective and citizen-friendly, thus strengthening citizens’ confidence in the union. i particularly welcome the ombudsman’s push in 2014 for more transparency within the eu institutions, in lobbying and clinical trials, and for more citizen participation in eu decision-making. finally, i am also pleased that the ombudsman achieved concrete results in 2014, opening 325 inquiries on the basis of complaints as well as 17 own-initiative inquiries and closing 387 complaints-based inquiries as well as 13 own-initiative inquiries.
‒ the european central bank's annual report for 2014 was one of the documents that i do not think it is possible to raise your hand to with a clear conscience. i therefore voted against, as i believe that this institution does not operate on a democratic basis and has contributed to the economic destabilisation of several eu countries. while the report emphasises the need for democratic accountability in the light of the ecb's new supervisory responsibilities and its advisory role in the troika and four programmes, it does not define what that accountability should look like, and i therefore consider the report to be worthless and potentially harmful.
in writing. i voted against amendment no 12, tabled by a group of more than 40 members, which proposed that the ecb use its power under article 129 (3) tfeu and its profits be used as an own resource of the eu. the ecb should be abolished and the member states should return to their own currencies.
in writing. i supported the ecb's annual activity report 2014 and appreciate that it remained focused on this topic and did not leave out elements that were not related to this topic. an example is the invitation to the ecb to consider using its power to initiate legislation to convert part of the net profit of the bank into a new own resource of the union, and to do so in a way that ensures that only member states that have adopted the single currency benefit from the net profit of the ecb. i am not in favour of serious policy initiatives being taken without first having a thorough discussion and clarifying what they are about and what their impact will be. not to mention that the annual report doesn't even include controversial and divisive rather than unifying political initiatives.
in writing. i supported the ecb's annual report 2014, as the institution has shown in that year that it is able to act proactively when needed. but i would point out that the european economy has shown and shows that the use of this policy alone is not enough to return the performance of the european union's economy to the level it was before the crisis. it is necessary that the measures taken by the european central bank are accompanied by an active policy involving positive, socially balanced structural reforms and sustainable investment. i voted for the proposal that the european central bank should communicate more with the members of the european parliament, since we are the only directly elected representatives of the european citizens. it should therefore be self-evident that a feedback loop should be set up for the annual reports that parliament approves. i also supported the proposal to transform part of the profits of this institution into own resources of the union budget. the european central bank is reporting profits of up to eur 1 billion a year, which are returned to the central banks, even though the eu budget is under long-term stress. i did so because of my conviction that it is wrong to prevent the deeper integration of the eurozone countries if they want it, but also because of the hope that the czech republic will soon be part of this group.
in writing. – i would like to commend the european central bank in its efforts to help european countries recover after a very serious economic crisis. it pleases me to hear that the ecb has made some important strides to help us progress to full economic recovery. according to the commission’s latest economic forecast, recovery in the euro area is expected to expand, with real gdp predicted to rise, and unemployment will slowly but surely decrease. however, i do agree that europe still has a long road of recovery ahead of us. we cannot only rely on the monetary policy conducted by the european central bank. the position of european social democrats is clear: we need to be more future-oriented and create more investments and greater domestic demand. with these aims, we can hope to not only recover from this crisis but come out stronger than before.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european central bank annual report for 2014. i welcome the setting-up of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) to maintain favourable financing conditions for private and public investment in the euro area. this is necessary to strengthen the expected uneven and modest recovery, to reduce the high unemployment rates, and to decrease the debt burden. i particularly hope that this will allow smes to get better financial support. i share my colleagues’ concern about the possible unintended consequences and long-term effects of the ecb’s current use of non-conventional monetary policy instruments. furthermore, i agree that the ecb rules should be properly respected and enforced, without differentiations made between large and small member states. finally, i welcome the habit adopted by major central banks initiated by the ecb, to publicly explain monetary decisions, in the name of transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as i am convinced there should be a swift initiation of negotiations on free trade agreements between the eu and australia and new zealand. the eu has already negotiated or started to negotiate agreements with all key trade partners but these two. despite the fact that australia and new zealand are, notwithstanding geography, eu’s close allies not only in bilateral trade, but also in the multilateral trade agenda. the eu is australia’s number one trade partner and a key source of foreign investments too.
in writing. ‒ i disagree with the proposal because it is not in the interests of fair trade between the parties concerned to radically remove trade barriers. similar investment agreements and free market agreements raise a very dangerous question of investment and investment protection. another point of criticism is the convergence of international standards, which in practice could lead to a reduction in european standards and also to a reduction in consumer or environmental protection. australia and new zealand are relatively distant from europe, so transporting goods is an unnecessary financial burden and also an environmental burden when european farmers are able to provide similar food. in addition, there is a risk of food spoilage during transport over such a long distance (distance to be stated: prague auckland 17 885 km).
in writing. - i voted yes. i support free trade with australia and new zealand.
in writing. the european union's new trade agreement with australia and new zealand is an important step towards opening up the market in the region, which is currently the fastest growing in the world and which is expected to retain this economic potential into the future. i am convinced that the trade agreement will open up new opportunities for cooperation, investment and job creation. lastly, the agreement will further strengthen the relations based on the shared values of all partners, as consensus has been reached both on sustainable development and environmental protection, and on the protection of human and workers' rights. as a social democrat, i am of course glad that we agree on these important points. the fact is that there are still sectors, such as agriculture, where we will have to be cautious, but i was very happy to support this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand. the european parliament stresses the importance of strengthening relations between the union and the asia-pacific region. these proposals should bring to all third parties expansion and development in the areas of investment, trade and service provision, energy, public market, health, technological research. furthermore, the conclusion of the contract will have a positive impact on consumer protection (e.g. food safety), environmental protection (e.g. animal and plant protection), social protection or the protection of workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the launch of negotiations for free-trade agreements with australia and new zealand. if concluded this agreement would help to optimise the growth potential stemming from strengthening relations between the eu and the asia-pacific region. but the text adopted underlines that any agreement must address, ‘in a meaningful way’, investment, the trade in goods and services, e-commerce, public procurement, energy, state-owned enterprises, competition, anti-corruption, regulatory issues such as sanitary and phytosanitary barriers, technology research and, in particular, the needs of smes. the text also calls for a separate chapter to take account of the needs of smes with regard to market access facilitation issues, and for the inclusion of a ‘robust and ambitious’ chapter on sustainable development, covering core labour standards, the four ilo priority governance conventions and multilateral environmental agreements. finally in a context of high tension in the agricultural sector in europe, the text we adopted stresses that the final outcomes in agriculture and fisheries must give due consideration to the interests of all european producers (in particular in the meat, dairy, sugar, cereal and textile sectors), including those in the outermost regions.
in writing. - i voted against it. firstly, i do not agree that the eu should dictate to individual countries what kind of animal registration system they should have. secondly, i consider that the proposal is ill-conceived and gives the commission too much power to decide further on the method of such registration. although the proposal does not specifically mention the mandatory use of animal chips, i fear that this may be the first step towards its implementation in the future.
in writing. i am convinced that the introduction of better, more applicable and, above all, compatible systems for the registration of pet animals is a crucial step in the protection of animal rights, the protection of the environment and the protection of public health. the illegal trade in these animals is on the rise, and it is even one of the world's most widespread types of international organized crime. at this level, they are, of course, treated very badly and cruelly. exotic animals that survive transport often end up in the unsuitable conditions of untrained owners, suffering from climate change, lack of space and social life, which is vital for wildlife. the introduction of these wild animals into environments where they have no natural predators may lead to their uncontrolled spread, endanger the environment and public health, and have a negative impact on the economy. i do not dispute that pets have a positive impact on the lives of individuals and families, and that pet owners have the right to travel with them. however, we must always remember that animals are living beings, not things, and the illegal trade that exposes them to suffering must be stopped.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the introduction of compatible systems for the registration of pet animals in all member states. pet ownership brings joy to many, but it can also bring anxiety. i personally dealt with the issue of marking and registration of dogs in pet breeding during my mandate as a member of the chamber of deputies of the czech republic. it is a certain satisfaction to me that the ep is leaning towards the idea of registering domestic animals. the european parliament report states that in some eu countries there is worrying evidence of increasing breaches of the rules on pet ownership and its exploitation for commercial purposes in conditions where animal cruelty is present. examples of such practices include the lack of vaccination and appropriate antiviral treatment and the inadequate veterinary and sanitary care of illegally traded animals. the report highlights the growing trade in wildlife and the associated risks to human health and lives. the report states that compatible pan-european requirements for the identification and registration of pet animals could both prevent illegal trade and animal cruelty and better protect the public health of citizens. the ep called on the commission to take strong and effective action to tackle the illegal trade in pet animals, including wildlife.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for the introduction of compatible systems for the registration of pet animals across member states. i believe that it will enable pet owners to travel with their pets in a safe, controlled manner, to fight illegal trade, but also to reduce the unnecessary bureaucracy and time delays linked to incompatible registration systems. a unitary system across the eu can also allow the tracing of the source of disease outbreaks and address animal abuse and welfare concerns.
in writing. i consider the european parliament resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen to be a document that deserves to be supported and i am very pleased to have been able to do so. the resolution criticises the saudi arabia/saudi-led coalition's actions in yemen and in particular the fact that the saudi-led military intervention in yemen, using internationally banned cluster bombs, has created a catastrophic humanitarian situation affecting the entire population of the country, has serious consequences for the region and poses a threat to international peace and security. the text also did not forget the events of 10 january 2016, when a hospital in northern yemen supported by médecins sans frontières (msf) was bombed, killing at least six people, injuring dozens, including msf staff, and seriously damaging medical facilities. i demand the whole incident be expunged and i hope it's not swept under the carpet. according to unicef, the conflict in yemen is also having a serious impact on children's access to education, with 3,584 schools, or one quarter, closed, leaving nearly 2 million children out of school, with 860 of those schools damaged or housing displaced people. so i hope this conflict will be ended soon.
in writing. ‒ i disagree with the challenges to the commission and the high representative. any arms embargo is to be a matter for the member states.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a motion for a resolution that was supported across the political spectrum. we are all well aware of the critical humanitarian situation in yemen, where the population is facing catastrophic living conditions. the saudi-led military conflict has resulted in the use of banned cluster bombs, has caused the deaths of at least 6,000 people, and according to the un, at least 200,000 civilians are in urgent need of assistance in the form of drinking water, food, medical assistance. i believe that the situation in yemen poses a great risk to the stability of the entire region. i believe it is absolutely essential that coordinated humanitarian action be launched immediately under the leadership of the united nations, with all countries contributing to a peaceful resolution of the situation. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european union is committed to helping victims of natural and man-made disasters around the world. the eu institutions, together with the union's member states, are the largest donors of humanitarian aid in the world. the european union is helping in all major crisis areas around the world, including yemen. the commission has also provided information on the activities of the yemeni authorities in the field of human rights, including the activities of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty) in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (yugoslavia). the current situation in yemen is increasing international danger, which has created a serious humanitarian crisis affecting the majority of the yemeni population. it is clear that there are many cases of human rights violations in yemen, as reflected in attacks on media outlets, violations of the convention against torture, and imprisonment of religious minorities. for these reasons, i am in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen. i believe that an effective solution to the crisis in yemen can be achieved through political dialogue, respect for the human rights of all citizens, and also through the participation of the yemeni people in a legitimate and transparent political transition with a clear timetable, based on the outcome of the national dialogue conference and the peace agreement and the pan-yemeni partnership.
in writing. i supported the resolution, with the exception of recital n and paragraph 7 which were inserted into the resolution by other political groups and which refer to the imposition of an arms embargo on saudi arabia. another issue is the human rights violations in this country. here i made my position clear by voting without hesitation to award the sakharov prize to political prisoner raif badawi. at this point, it is crucial to apply coordinated humanitarian action under the leadership of the un. all parties must allow the un and international humanitarian organisations to enter and deliver essential food, medicine, fuel and other necessary assistance and meet the needs of civilians affected by the crisis. the people of yemen are in dire need of life-saving aid. a stable and secure yemen with a properly functioning government is crucial to international efforts to combat extremism.
in writing. i voted in favour of today's resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen, because it is primarily concerned with the deteriorating humanitarian situation of the civilian population of yemen, who find themselves on the battlefield. the need to address this situation is highlighted not only by the european parliament but also by unhcr, unicef. as in other countries in which a de facto civil war is taking place, involving directly or indirectly various other states or terrorist organisations, efforts should be made at the earliest to respect at least the basic principles of international humanitarian law, to gradually reduce and stop the fighting and to find a way to establish at least a minimum stable government that will be respected by at least most of the parties to the current conflict. this is the only way to ensure stability not only in these countries but in the region, whose instability we are now also feeling in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen expressing great concern over the alarming deterioration of the humanitarian situation, characterised by widespread food insecurity, attacks against civilians and aid workers, the destruction of civilian and medical infrastructure, as well as an intensification of airstrikes by the saudi-led coalition, ground fighting and shelling. this situation also led me to support the amendment on an eu arms embargo against saudi arabia, given its serious allegations of breaches of international humanitarian law in yemen. i fully agree with the need for coordinated humanitarian action under un leadership, the call on all sides to comply with international humanitarian law and international human rights law, and with the plea that saudi arabia and iran work together to end the fighting in yemen. finally, i also believe that we will only achieve peace through a political, inclusive and negotiated solution.
mr. chairman, i don't like the idea of subsidizing milk for schools. you're talking about being some kind of savior or child rescuer, bragging about how you created a genius program. but i would like to say that the european union is not a mother to dictate what children in schools should eat. and the health of the milk is questionable to say the least. and if you ban flavored, sweetened milk in those schools, you can bet your kids won't drink it. and who knows what they'll do with it. so, first of all, what children eat should be a matter for the parents, so it would be best to leave the 250 million euros in the pockets of the taxpayers, the parents of these children, and not let the european union deal with it. if you think that milk should be subsidized in your countries, then let's deal with it within your national states and not involve the european union. if you boast that the program is voluntary, then the countries that don't participate are actually indirectly subsidizing the other countries. so i'm going to be staunchly against this proposal. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, have you noticed that the european union does not prohibit anything in this matter, that it only promotes a certain type of product? i think it's good to put it in the context of your performance.
answer the question by raising the blue card. we should be aware that if the european union has a programme where it wants to give 250 million euros to subsidize certain products and those products will have milk that is not sweetened, it is forcing unsweetened milk on children in this way and of course it is at the expense of other kinds of snacks and it is at the expense of taxpayers who want something else for children. so it's nice that they don't ban chocolate milk from brussels so the kids can buy it, but they subsidise milk that nobody will drink. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. madam colleague, i don't understand. if you think that apples or milk are so healthy for your children, why don't you buy them for snacks? why do you have to come up with a programme for 500 million europeans from brussels? do we need the european union to buy apples or milk for our children?
mr. chairman, i would like to join my colleagues in speaking out in support of this program. i'm glad he has such broad support across the political spectrum. it's true that the two programs were originally merged. this will have the advantage of allowing a certain amount of funds to be transferred between programmes and the negotiations have also moved towards enlarging the range of dairy products used as well as fruit products. i think the primary thing is to get kids between the ages of six and ten to get healthy eating habits. to eat healthy food. true, today's family life-style often does not allow parents to provide such training. so it's not about imposition, it's not about regulation, but it's about positive motivation, which should have a positive impact on the health of our children. that should be the primary objective and, of course, also the support for domestic agricultural production.
mr. chairman, if president obama has made antibiotic resistance one of his campaign priorities, it's very important that we respond to that fact. that we recognize how very significant the risk is of acquiring antibiotic resistance when it comes to animal husbandry and not just when it comes to animal husbandry. and, of course, the consumption of products derived from these animals. there's a statistic to be aware of. by 2050, more than 130,000 tonnes of antibiotics are expected to be consumed by animals worldwide. that's almost 4,000 tons of antibiotics a year. this number really threatens food safety, consumer rights, but of course also animal rights. i'm glad that came up in this discussion. we must therefore protect not only food safety and the environment but also the rights of individual consumers, who are really threatened by this widespread use of antibiotics.
mr president, some colleagues have said that they are not entirely happy, and i need to say that nor am i – i think that many of us would not be. but the question is, what are the options? what we clearly know is that we need better access to ports, and we need better management, and for me that means we need better organisation. the question is also whether we, for another period of time, should ask public and private stakeholders to stay in legal uncertainty. so while i am not entirely happy with the proposal, and there are definitely issues that have to be addressed, i believe it is high time to submit the proposal for negotiations and do the fine-tuning during the negotiations. sometimes, less is more. that is why, with this strong message, i will skip my time and give you five seconds extra. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– she might have done it on purpose because she knows that i am late for a meeting! i need to say that i see an improvement, definitely. i think that this is the degree to which i can subscribe to it. the question is what is in it that is not sufficient? i am sure that some of the elements are yet to be addressed, but i am sure that with good, solid effort we can make it happen. i would have a number of other issues, but for me the progress so far in comparison to the previous efforts is definitely sizeable and i am ready to support it and raise a hand in favour of negotiating and fine—tuning the proposal as it stands today.
madam president, i too would like to express my hope that this third attempt to pass this report, or this legislation, will be successful. i welcome and appreciate the fact that this proposal does, to some extent, depart from certain provisions in the social area. that can certainly be appreciated. however, i consider it important that the commission continue to promote, as is apparent from this proposal, uniform rules for the operation of the port. that these rules create sufficient competitiveness and competitive tension, because today we are also witnessing a situation where the market is abused. when the situation is exploited in the transport and cargo operations in transit. so it's essential for us, even though we're a landlocked country, the czech republic, that these rules are really competitive into the future, that they set up a transparent, simple network for the transport of goods.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank my colleague, mr benedikt jávor, for his contribution. from the standpoint of the ppe, i have to say that this is a very high-quality text. corruption is a fundamental problem and a phenomenon that significantly affects europe's financial interests and thus every european citizen. we lose 120 billion euros a year to corruption and fraud. i'm afraid the fight against corruption is neither simple nor straightforward. however, it is not only the commission's responsibility, but also, and i stress this, that of each member state to take part in combating corruption, since corruption is first and foremost a state of mind and must be combated by means of sanctions and severe penalties. member states must start spending european money more responsibly and effectively to ensure the objective and maximum added value of european money. and if that money is not properly used, it must be severely sanctioned. the report we are debating today in parliament is a balanced document offering a good solution, and i would like all the actors to commit themselves to implementing it by working together.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the amount of data processed in real time is increasing, and so is the need for technical infrastructure for its transmission with the highest security requirements. increasing capacity and transmission speeds become a condition for further development. however, we must not forget the system background, without which it would not be possible to handle large volumes of data in a very short time. this is true for cloud computing, but also for the dynamically increasing demands on supercomputing systems. these are capable of a tremendous number of computational operations on large volumes of data. we need new approaches, whether it's parallel computing or new mathematical methods. however, this data processing infrastructure is very costly and we should therefore work closely together and make effective use of union programmes and funds.
madam president, a number of aspects of the data economy have been mentioned. whether it's privacy versus the business of data, of data. or it could be security and protection of property and against that, demands for flexibility. however, i would like to mention one more question that has not been included here. this is a question of copyright protection versus requests for quick consent. there is no doubt that copyright protection must be ensured. i'm in favor of that request. but the problem is the rate of consent, which is also related to the way that data is shifted in the economy. how quickly can you get the rightful rights holders to approve? and here i think there is still a big gap, precisely at the eu level. there is no internal market and collective management organisations are bound by national legislation and the european union should therefore be strongly involved in this respect as well.
madam president, i would like to thank mrs mlinar for her report, because i think it is right that the european parliament, as she said, should set an example and assess the opportunities it gives to women, both in politics and in senior administrative positions. we find serious shortcomings in this area and therefore recommend that the european parliament's leadership address this situation, that women be represented more strongly in the highest administrative posts, where they should be up to 40%, and that the conditions be created for women to be able to perform this function. i think they're all very good measures. unfortunately, there are some suggestions in this report that i cannot agree with. for example, gender mainstreaming should be the subject of training, certified courses, and each committee should develop an action plan for its inclusion in its agenda. i am afraid that this is a large administration which would not serve that purpose, so if these amendments are adopted, i will not be able to vote for the report.
madam president, commissioner, the situation on the greek-macedonian border has been absolutely intolerable for a long time. and this is not surprising, because greece has not yet been able to carry out checks on incoming refugees upon entering the country. it is right that no one should enter the territory of the european union without being checked. however, the reality is unfortunately different. it is not surprising that thousands of people are now gathering on the border with macedonia, which has long been a transit country on the way west. we have to stop turning a blind eye to problems. the european union's porous external borders have allowed people to enter who may be dangerous to europe. and the flow of people going to europe without any documents must therefore be stopped immediately. and finally, let me thank all the translators and all of you who have been here late into the night.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her rational approach and the concrete proposals she is making for the coming term. it turns out that the situation in terms of gender equality and the status of women in society is still not what we would like. they're slowly improving. for example, in the czech republic, even in times of economic growth, we still have a gender pay gap of over 12%, both in the public sector and in the business sector. this is because women are employed in sectors where they are paid less, whether they are teachers, nurses, but women are primarily engaged in childcare and in caring for needy family members. the european union cannot, from its level, tell the member states what to do, but we can say from this level that we value women who have children, that we value women who have the courage to have more children, and that these women need to have adequate maternity leave, parental leave and also financial security at this time. from this level, we can say that we also value women who want to have children, want to have a family, and want to continue their profession. they therefore need to be able to work in flexible forms, receive support from employers and have access to childcare during their employment. from this level, we should thank all the moms, and i also want to thank my mom, who was a politician, a doctor, but always a great mom. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. - sir, i think most women should have a choice. when we say that women and men are equal, they are also free and should have the ability to choose. i, of course, see women as mothers, and i want women to have the choice to have children, to stay at home with them, and to have the choice to have children and then go back to their profession.
madam president, although i know i cannot determine the order, i would of course be very happy if mr štětina could also comment on this matter. however, as to what's on the agenda today. i would like to declare for us men that chauvinism is not inherent in any of us. what we heard from some of our colleagues here made me very sad indeed. i'd like to wish the women a happy holiday, but to the point. the population ratio in favor of women is 52% to 48% of the representation in society, so nature decides. and that women are constantly discriminated against in employment, in wages, in the level of pensions, that is a fact, that is a fact. we really should do something about that. i'm glad we're having this conversation on a very regular basis. the commissioner is very often involved in these discussions. but it would be good if what we say in this room also represented a recognition of the status of women. unfortunately, i think some of the posts didn't really reflect that.
madam chairman, i've been fortunate in my life to have met many strong and brave women. one of them was my mom. i know very well that in war, it's not the men who suffer the most. they're children, and they're women, and i want to remind you of one of them today. as i'm sure you know, last friday, the kidnapped and wrongfully detained ukrainian officer nadia savchenko went on a hunger strike. the dry hunger strike. today is the fifth day he hasn't had a drink. fifth day without water. her condition is critical and she could die in a few hours or days. tomorrow, the unfair trial is to continue, in which the prosecutor has asked for 23 years in prison for nadya savchenko. and i want to call on you, ladies, colleagues, to make every effort as women to free her.
in writing. international women's day is an opportunity to take stock of progress in equalising the opportunities of majority women with minority men. it is well known that in the eu and other regions of the world, women are the ones most at risk of unemployment, or so-called working poverty, or of low income in old age. there are areas of human activity where equality is nonsense. however, there are many areas where a level playing field is possible. the disparity in pay for equal occupations and equal work placement between men and women is literally scandalous in central europe, where equal opportunities under the law and various sub-legal norms has a long tradition. a gender pay gap of more than 20% for the same position can hardly eliminate quotas for members of the boards of directors and supervisors of companies or various types of positive discrimination in the case of elections to representative bodies of various degrees. unfortunately, those who are proposing such standards are not taking into account the low representation of women and disabled people in public institutions and their leadership, from the ep, the ec and the municipal office in a small town. unfortunately, some of the rational recommendations of the eu institutions are understood in a similar way. the barcelona declaration, which recommended in 2010 that eu countries provide capacity for kindergartens and nurseries, has not been met in the long term. it is precisely on such concrete rational measures that we should concentrate in the future, if we are not to be ridiculous.
madam chairman, thank you for the excellent pronunciation of my name. commissioner, most of us think of a refugee as a man between the ages of 20 and 35 who comes to europe and risks his life to achieve his dream of living in the prosperity that european society can provide for these people. but few people realize that half of the women and children who are currently on the border between macedonia and greece, at least half of them, are being discriminated against in some way in the way they are received by certain authorities and how they are constantly attacked by men. and it's these women who are going on the road more and more. and we have to respond. however, this report, which is well-intentioned and it is a pity that the european parliament does not agree with it, has unfortunately fallen victim to another political battle. this report has been misused to implement a number of things that have nothing to do with the status of women and the current situation in the european union. and i think we have to reject that outright. that is why i support the position of the european people's party, which is proposing an alternative resolution.
i also supported this report and this regulation, madam president, because it is not just a question of whether or not someone loves animals, but i believe that we have a duty to promote better treatment of living creatures. i think that's unquestionable, although of course in ancient roman law, animals were considered things. today, we can no longer treat them in this way, but we must see them as living beings who suffer, feel, and are simply part of the living space around us. on the other hand, it should be noted that these are not only animal rights but also, by analogy, the rights of citizens. because consumer rights are part of this broader animal rights concept. antibiotic resistance to broadly administered antibiotics is one of the major problems we face in animal husbandry. and i think that's what we should be focusing on. in fact, the debate tomorrow afternoon will be on that.
in writing. ‒ this report aims at reinforcing measures to prevent and halt outbreaks of animal diseases. i can only agree with the approach of this text, which links animal health and welfare and connects it to human health. it also puts a strong emphasis on prevention and control. finally, for the sake of simplicity, it merges around 40 legal acts into one basic act. for these three reasons, i decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i am the author of the rejection motion, otherwise the text would have been adopted without a vote. i voted no. i reject the commission's power to obtain the right to decide on the identification of animals instead of the member states. such rules cannot be established without due control by national parliaments and citizens. the european union is not an institution that is supposed to decide on these matters for the national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the draft regulation on transmissible animal diseases. this text emphasises the preventive role of the tse regulation and focuses on the expected consequent reduction in the use of antibiotics in animals. member states are invited to commit to collecting detailed data on the actual use of antimicrobial medicinal products in animals and to send these data to the commission. furthermore, the disease regulation lays down rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases which can be transmitted to animals or to humans and does not contain any provisions specifically governing animal welfare, although animal health and animal welfare are linked. in line with the czech position, i supported the proposal.
in writing. i voted against the amendment tabled by the europe of freedom and direct democracy group. if we were to accept it, we would continue to ignore the unfortunate situation in the field of animal husbandry and the use of medicinal products. i've been raising awareness of the problem of antimicrobial resistance for a long time. i am therefore pleased that legislation is addressing the much-needed reduction in the use of antibiotics in animals. it is necessary for member states to collect relevant data on the use of antimicrobial medicinal products in order to reduce the possibility of resistance development in both animals and humans. perhaps it goes without saying that the european union reports up to 25,000 human deaths each year from antibiotic-resistant bacteria. if the situation is not reversed, up to 300 million lives may be lost worldwide in the next 35 years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that, in addition to laying down rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases which are transmissible to animals and to humans, we should also include animal welfare. it is undeniable that animal health is closely connected with their well-being. furthermore, collecting relevant data on the use of antimicrobial medicinal products could be an important step towards reducing the risk of antimicrobial resistance.
in writing. - i decided to support this recommendation. i agree that it is necessary for member states to commit themselves to collecting relevant, detailed and comparable data on the actual use of antimicrobial medicinal products in animals. i consider it necessary that these products should be used in animals only when absolutely necessary and thus to avoid the possible development of antimicrobial resistance. i also welcome the commission's commitment to publishing regular reports in this area.
madam president, the story is not entirely black and white and it is true that certain products should only be promoted when necessary. i too have been hesitant about supporting this proposal, and on the one hand i have decided to support it because there has been a significant shift from the original proposal last year. in the czech republic, the 'milk to school' programme is very successful, with over three thousand schools involved and six hundred thousand pupils consuming products from the programme. i'm not saying that all the products are perfectly healthy, but if we're going to fight sweetened coke and candy bars and other clearly unhealthy foods, then promoting flavored milk and flavored milk products is, in my opinion, a much lesser evil. and it is important that children acquire these eating habits early rather than later.
in writing. ‒ i would like to state first, that i am absolutely in favour of children having a healthy and balanced alimentation, including during their school time. however, i cannot support the legislative report as proposed by the rapporteur because i believe there are several problematic points in it. i do not see a case for such a strong, eu—sponsored and subsidized scheme, imposing on member states the supply of fruit, vegetables and milk for children. i am convinced that any scheme like this should be promoted and managed mainly on the member state level, taking into account the specificities of local educational establishments and local agriculture production. any general, eu level, scheme does not, in my view, seem to fit the purpose.
in writing. in the czech republic, the 'school milk' programme has been in operation since 1999. at present, some 3 100 schools, including nursery, primary and secondary schools, are involved in the programme. milk and milk products are supported partly by eu, partly by national resources and partly by the parents of the children involved in the programme. fruit and vegetables for schoolchildren is a younger project, running in the czech republic since 2010 (in the eu since 2007). from the outset, the project has included a training element, a national strategy has been developed and the possibility of financing accompanying measures is added. as regards the administrative burden, the suppliers, not the schools, apply for the aid, so that the administrative and organisational burden on the schools is minimal. i am very supportive of both projects and consider them important, especially from the point of view of the children's eating habits. however, i do not agree with the adaptation of the school fruit and milk programmes at eu level. i believe that this is a matter of national competence and that the principle of subsidiarity should be respected. i see no reason for this issue to be decided at european level.
in writing. the european commission's proposal aims to establish a common legal and financial framework for the distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk to children in schools. the 'milk for schools' programme is already working successfully in the czech republic and, given the increasing prevalence of childhood obesity due to poor eating habits, i believe it is important to get fruit and vegetables into schools as well, in order to promote healthy eating for children at the earliest possible age. in fact, the promotion of healthy eating and the focus on the importance of agriculture, health and the environment are all very important today.
in writing. on 8 march 2016, we voted on the draft regulation amending the original regulation as regards the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments. the commission's original plans envisaged major changes to the programme which would have led to its deterioration. originally, the financial support was to be limited to dairy products that children do not like very much, such as non-flavoured milk for consumption and low-fat products without added sugar. while this effort was entirely logical and aimed at improving the health of our offspring, the reality of everyday life is far more complex. there has been talk that the health of children is deteriorating rather than improving, due to the rapid decline in the consumption of milk products. which is why i'm glad that all parties have finally reached a reasonable compromise. in future, therefore, processed and flavoured milk products, which can only be flavoured with a natural ingredient, will be eligible for financial support. the original proposal will even be extended to support processed fruit, vegetables and bananas. in addition, the envelope from which the milk for schools funding will be drawn is increased almost fourfold for the czech republic to eur 1,6 million. for these reasons, i am very pleased to have been able to support the text presented yesterday.
in writing. - i voted against it. while i agree that children should eat healthy, i also reject the idea of transferring parental responsibility to a state to which children do not belong. i don't approve of using taxpayers' money on products that they can buy for their children. it is just a different way of promoting the eu, as the report emphasises. states not participating in the programme will be reimbursed through the european budget for those that do.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a proposal for a regulation concerning the promotion of the supply of fruit, vegetables and milk to educational establishments. the findings show a decreasing trend in milk and fruit consumption, especially among children, for whom it is an important source of calcium and vitamins. the distribution of these products will also support the consumption of domestic products. the regulation also deals with the composition of such products, where the prohibition of added sugar, salt, fat, sweeteners and artificial flavour enhancers applies. because i care about the health of children and youth, not just as a doctor, i supported the motion.
in writing. i supported the report on increasing the 'milk for schools' programme by eur 20 million to eur 100 million and adjusting the conditions for drawing on this programme. this is a programme that is beneficial in terms of creating healthy eating habits in children and is working very well in the czech republic, for example. i therefore appreciate that it does not dramatically interfere with the range of dairy products that can be supported by the programme. it's better for kids to drink flavored milk or yogurt than to reach for sugary sodas or chocolate bars. i think it is a reasonable compromise that milk products with added sugar, salt or fat will be subject to the assessment and authorisation of the responsible authority in the member state, in the case of the czech republic it will be the ministry of health, which is an institution that can be trusted.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments in the member states of the european union. its approval will link the two previous schemes, the fruit and vegetables scheme and the milk scheme and its lactose-free variants, which should ensure that the effectiveness of those instruments is increased. as vice-president of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i am very pleased that the european union is also committed to healthy consumer habits for the young generation in europe. in particular, during periods of increased consumption of highly processed foods containing high levels of sugar, fat and added substances, there is a need to encourage the consumption of fresh fruit, vegetables and milk. i am very pleased that the scheme will also support supporting educational activities, which i strongly hope will be used to the full by the member states and educational establishments. according to european union statistics, overweight and obesity kill up to 3 million europeans a year. statistics from the world health organization also point to an alarming trend in the increase of childhood obesity, with up to one in three children in the age group of 6 to 9 years suffering from obesity. this is not the way europe should go. consumers need to be made aware of the risks of highly processed foods from an early age. the sooner he gets into the right habits, the better.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments. in this age of increasing childhood obesity and unhealthy eating habits, it is important to direct children toward a healthier lifestyle. i believe that it is the eu's support for the distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk to schools, including the possibility for member states to include other regional products, that will help to halt the declining consumption of healthy products and increase the interest in their consumption among children. to this end, i also support accompanying educational projects through various activities such as farm visits. such projects can not only lead to a better exposure of children to local produce, but also to a greater support for the activities of farmers in the area. these measures may also serve to educate on related issues such as healthy eating habits, local food chains, organic farming, sustainable production or the fight against food waste. at the same time, however, care should be taken to ensure that other foods served to children do not contain too much sugar, fat, salt, sweeteners and artificial flavour enhancers e620 and e650.
in writing. i supported the report amending the commission proposal for a regulation to promote the supply of fruit, vegetables and milk to schools. the amended regulation merges two existing programmes, 'milk for schools' (1977), and 'fruit for schools' (2009), and creates a new common financial and legal framework for them. in addition to promoting the supply of products, the new regulation is also intended to provide space for further education in this area, thus motivating children to eat healthier on their own. the project budget allocates eur 150 million to the 'cash and vegetables' programme and eur 100 million to the 'milk' programme (with a 20% cap on transfers). this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european union agency for fundamental rights' activities in the field of the protection of personal data and the prevention of the use of the internet for the purposes of criminal investigations, including the cost of the european union agency for fundamental rights' activities in the field of the protection of personal data. the report extends the list of subsidised products to include some processed foods (e.g. yoghurt) as opposed to the original proposal, which is good, because otherwise the new regulation would limit the programmes already successfully operating in the member states. i consider the amendment in question to be useful for promoting a healthier lifestyle. last but not least, the proposal also provides support for local agricultural production, which it links to the programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that merging these two schemes will allow more coherence and more effective implementation. the text stressed the importance of the continuation and strengthening of the two school schemes in the current context of declining consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and milk products, especially among children, and of an increasing incidence of child obesity as a result of consumption habits geared to highly processed food. however, in order to promote the consumption of specific products and to respond to particular nutritional needs of children in its territory, a certain flexibility has been introduced in order for member states to promote their products.
in writing. ‒ i support this report, which contains many changes that will lead to a better and more comprehensive functioning of the project to promote the supply of fruit, vegetables and milk to educational establishments. the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables by children is steadily declining, and i therefore believe that this trend needs to be reversed, and i consider projects of this type to be a very effective tool. as mentioned in the report, member states need to develop long-term strategies in this area, or link the initiative to existing national programmes with the same focus. i also agree that projects should promote and offer local and regional products to children in schools.
in writing. - i voted against it. the eu does not regulate ports specifically. port management is to be the subject of an agreement between the operator and the users. ports should be subject to national rules, where appropriate. the czech republic has the right under the treaty of versailles to operate the czech territory in hamburg as a free port and this fact is not taken into account in the proposal.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the draft regulation establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency for ports. this is a compromise text to serve as a basis for the opening of a trilogue with the council and was adopted after difficult and lengthy negotiations in the tran committee. the report managed to include a ban on further liberalisation of port services and, through cooperation with the relevant trade unions, provisions guaranteeing the safety of port workers at work, an emphasis on collective agreements as well as a requirement that any changes must be addressed through dialogue with the social partners. the text also emphasises environmentally sustainable operations in maritime ports as well as quality requirements. i voted in favor of the bill.
in writing. ‒ the eu's some 1 200 ports play a crucial role in both the transport sector itself and europe's overall competitiveness. i am sincerely glad that the european parliament has approved this proposal from my social democrat colleague. the proposal succeeded where the previous two failed, because it did not take sufficient account of social aspects and labour market needs. clear rules on market access to port services and their transparency were needed, as was the need to establish a social dialogue with the sector's workers and their trade unions. the unions eventually endorsed the proposal, which also received support across political groups. but it contains all the priorities of the social democrats. better organisation and control of port operations will lead to the creation of quality jobs, transparent financing and compliance with environmental commitments. and so it will be for the benefit of all.
in writing. ‒ in order to save the consensus achieved in committee and to start the negotiations as soon as possible, i favoured all provisions coming for the report as adopted in the committee on transport and tourism (tran) and rejected all proposals to amend it. i am not entirely satisfied with it as it stands as i expected further liberalisation of the market access to port services; however provisions on financial transparency for ports are an important step towards a clearer legal framework for public and private investment. the commission proposal has been on the table since 2013, it is more than timely that we end the legal uncertainty under which we are placing the stakeholders of a sector which badly needs reforms. we will now have the opportunity to improve the text throughout the negotiations with the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ the harmonised index of consumer prices is an important tool to ensure that consumer prices across europe are equally reflected in calculations which can determine inflation rates within the eu. this updated framework will take into account new developments in statistics as well as new decision-making processes in the eu which have come into effect since the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. therefore, i believe the regulation is useful and will contribute to greater accuracy in the calculation and publication of inflation rates.
in writing. on 8 march 2016, the european parliament voted at its plenary session in strasbourg on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on harmonised indices of consumer prices. harmonisation of eu inflation indicators, including consumer price indices, is likely to be necessary for the proper functioning of the european union and the conduct of an effective monetary policy. it is probably even reasonable for consumer price indices to be comparable in all eu member states and in all product areas. the aim of the proposal was to establish a common legal framework for the creation of such harmonised indices by the member states. however, since the proposal also contains extensive possibilities for creating indexes for items such as narcotics, gambling and prostitution, i could not support the text presented and had to vote against it.
in writing. - i voted against it. the hicp is inherently inaccurate because each country has a different culture, a different level of income and therefore a different structure of household expenditure. harmonised indices thus always give a distorted picture of price developments. constant changes in the methodology reduce the comparability of the price level over time. the new generation requirements will put a burden on both the national statistical authorities and the eu budget.
in writing. i supported the report on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hisc) and house prices (icbn) at union, national and sub-national level. the hisc provides a measure of inflation, which is used inter alia for wages, rent, interest rates and thus forms the basis for economic and monetary policy decisions. it is therefore essential that those statistics are objective, error-free and comparable across all member states and product areas. i agree that member states will not be required to produce or provide sub-indices of the hicp whose weight represents less than one percentile of the total expenditure included in the hicp. given the importance of the implementation of monetary policy, i consider it useful for euro area member states to submit flash hicp estimates at monthly intervals.
in writing. ‒ statistical data are of vital importance in the formulation of any policy. the economy is no exception. that is why i supported the report on harmonised consumer price indices to measure inflation. it is necessary to establish a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices at union and national level and to complement them with any other relevant indicators, including better integration of house price indices. as we have seen over the past few years, it is highly desirable that information, even if provisional, be provided in good time and that it is possible to make flash estimates of the evolution of price stability. it is therefore more than logical that the commission should adopt measures to allow it to consider possible changes in the collection of this relevant information.
‒ in my view, this is a very important topic, as it deals with key decisions concerning economic and monetary policy. the draft regulation submitted by the commission provides for a single legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hiscs) and house prices (icbns) at union, national and sub-national level. and since the hisc regulation currently in force dates back to 1995, it needs to be revised to achieve the maximum possible comparability for the main users of hisc. it should be borne in mind that timely regular information on inflation is essential, especially for the conduct of monetary policy. the commission will contribute to the funding of pilot studies, where appropriate, and will subsequently prepare a report on the evaluation of the main findings for the european parliament and the council every five years, which will certainly contribute to better information for us, the members of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of developing, collecting and disseminating harmonised indices of consumer prices that will allow us to measure and compare inflation across member states. i believe that this is an essential tool to help us assess the competitiveness of our national economies more effectively, understand their shortcomings and subsequently be able to plan and formulate better economic and monetary regulations in a comparative perspective. objective, smart and reliable statistics about our economies are a valuable public good, which every citizen should be able to have access to.
in writing. the management of eu funds and the protection of the eu's financial interests are key elements of eu policies. the legal and administrative systems of the eu member states are highly diverse, which also makes it difficult to eliminate irregularities and fight fraud. for these reasons, it is necessary that not only the commission but also the member states increase their effectiveness in the fight against fraud and corruption. the report suggests steps to achieve better monitoring and control of the management of public procurement, while stressing the importance of access to information and transparency. the importance of the commission's role and its application of a strict policy of interrupting and suspending payments in specific cases of fraud is also mentioned. it is therefore appropriate to accept the proposal and thereby commit to jointly tackling corruption and fraud affecting the eu's financial interests.
in writing. - i voted against it. the proposal calls on the commission to set up a system for measuring corruption in the member states. let's leave this to transparency international and similar organizations. the eu should look for ways to prevent corruption in its institutions. i do not agree with the eu adopting legislation to protect whistleblowers, as the proposal states.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the draft annual report for 2014 on the protection of the eu's financial interests, the fight against fraud. the report highlights, for example, tax evasion linked to insufficient vat collection, the problem of corruption and financial fraud. the commission notes that the financial corrections provided for in the guidelines are not limited to the amounts of the amounts of the financial corrections provided for in the guidelines. the report calls on the member states and the commission to step up the fight against fraud and corruption and to improve the exchange of information. i am not happy with the emphasis on the role of the new european public prosecutor's office in the text, and i do not agree with the creation of this institution, which i consider superfluous, but i am otherwise aware of the importance of the report under consideration and of the whole problem of combating fraud, which is why i supported the text in the final vote.
in writing. i supported this report, which provides a very comprehensive and clear picture of the situation on both the revenue and expenditure sides of the european budget. in this context, it should be noted that the czech republic has been involved in cooperation with law enforcement and judicial authorities from germany, poland, the netherlands, the united kingdom, belgium, spain and switzerland aimed at dismantling criminal networks responsible for tax fraud amounting to approximately eur 320 million, and it would be good to build on this cooperation with further activities, including at eu level. i agree with the need to improve controls and practices in public procurement, where there is a high level of irregularities and fraud.
in writing. i supported the 2014 annual report on the protection of the financial interests of the european union. i did so because it is necessary to fight corruption, which costs europeans up to €120 billion a year. in 2014, fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities increased by up to 42% in the european budget. we cannot tolerate these irregularities, amounting to up to eur 3.24 billion. i therefore voted in favour of a provision calling on the commission to take a more active stance in recovering funds unduly paid out of the european budget. underwater irregularities are most common in agricultural policy, rural development and fisheries. it is therefore appropriate to introduce a transparent control mechanism in those areas and to guarantee the protection of whistleblowers. furthermore, since 80% of the budgetary appropriations fall under shared management, the european commission should develop a system for the exchange of information between the relevant authorities of the member states. i also voted for a strengthening of the european commission's role in carrying out audits and inspections and for an obligation on member states to increase their efforts in detecting errors before the european commission is wrongly asked to reimburse costs. the actors who can help to a great extent in exposing unfair activities and irregularities are the citizens themselves. i therefore endorsed the creation of an electronic fence to enable fraud to be detected quickly and easily.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report 2014 on the protection of the eu’s financial interests as i find it unacceptable that our citizens’ money is wasted on fraud, corruption or even on irregular use of funds due to insufficient knowledge about the rules and requirements for their use. i believe it is key that we achieve sound public spending to ensure that every euro is used properly and to be able to use all available resources to stimulate growth and create jobs. anti-fraud strategies such as simplification of regulations, transparency in lobbying, stricter inspection, better coordination between member states, but also efforts to develop uniform reporting among member states, are needed to achieve this goal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on gender mainstreaming in the european parliament as i believe there are things to be improved in this house. the european parliament is a vocal defender of gender mainstreaming and it should be in the forefront of it, serve as a positive reference and good example also for other relevant institutions. in order to be a credible stakeholder in this area, we have to address the shortcomings highlighted in the report such as candidates for chairs of committees and delegations. having said that, i had one reserve on the proposal for a standing rapporteur on gender mainstreaming, as i think we do not need a newly created position for these issues. the structures and instruments already exist in the european parliament; it is only up to us to use them adequately.
in writing. ‒ equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of european law, a common value and a necessary condition for achieving the eu's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. unfortunately, women still do not have the same rights and opportunities as men. the report by angelika mlinar calls for the accelerated integration of the gender perspective into the preparation, design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of eu policies. raising awareness of the persistent problem of gender inequality and strengthening cooperation with the commission, national parliaments and international organisations is, in my view, essential - not only in the context of international women's day celebrations - and that is why i strongly supported the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european union recognises equality between men and women as a fundamental right. it is a general value of the european union, which is essential for achieving the european union's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. despite the structural inequalities between women and men in society, women continue to lack equal access to and control over resources and means. the current situation therefore shows that the content of gender-sensitive policies is essential for a proper gender equality strategy. the resolution stresses the need to mainstream gender in all policy areas, which is why i support this proposal. to further improve gender equality, two different aspects need to be considered: policy content and gender representation and gender equality at decision-making level.
in writing. - i voted against it. i am against the creation of any more committees and commissions to look after gender equality in parliament. it is foolish to demand absolute equality in the number of men and women employed in the ep. i do not agree that special committees should work to increase the number of women in parliament and to ensure absolute gender equality in admission to the ep. i am also against the commission taking into account the experience of lgbtiq people in analysing the impact of the proposed legislation on gender equality. the only fair criteria for recruiting applicants is their experience and knowledge, not their gender or sexual orientation.
in writing. ‒ i commend the parliament for the support that the report on gender mainstreaming in the work of the parliament was given today and am happy to be one amongst many voting favourably on the measures. gender mainstreaming is an important tool for this institution to use in the movement towards better gender equality. gender mainstreaming is the concept of assessing the different implications for women and men of any planned policy action, including legislation and programmes, in all areas and levels. women have an important voice in parliament and these measures, like stronger interinstitutional relations, will improve the gender balance in eu policy-making. the exchange with other institutions and organisations such as un women will assist the european parliament in creating more tailor-made gender mainstreaming programs. the european parliament is making great strides to gender equality and setting a high bar for other international institutions.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to mainstream gender equality in the work of the european parliament and consider it one of the priorities of the european union. the achievement of equality between women and men is not only one of the pillars of human rights protection, but it is also a fundamental issue for me in relation to the functioning of democracy and respect for the rule of law and social inclusion. the fight against gender discrimination for equal treatment in the labour market should remain the objective of the european union as a whole and my attitude towards the european parliament in its efforts to mainstream the gender perspective in all its committees is unequivocally positive. i am convinced that the principle of the application of equality between men and women within the european union should continue to be strengthened by legislation and treaty amendments, and that the european parliament should continue to speak positively on equality issues. i also see gender equality as a key international objective that should support european integration. it is necessary to continue to take action to close the gap and to fight together against gender segregation in the labour market.
‒ the european parliament adopted a report on mainstreaming gender equality in the work of the european parliament. i did not vote for this report because i consider some of the provisions adopted unacceptable, particularly in the sense of increasing unnecessary bureaucracy. i supported the amendments to ensure equal representation of women and men on the committee on women's rights and gender equality, and a higher representation of women in senior administrative posts in the ep (the 40% target). i also supported the provision for the european parliament to create better conditions for reconciling work and family life. i voted to drop the provision on accreditation of gender courses and gender-neutral language, which was eventually dropped. since the plenary vote did not leave out such nonsensical proposals as the establishment of a 'permanent rapporteur' for gender equality or the monitoring of the gender dimension in all committees, including the creation of action plans, a network of rapporteurs and gender training for all staff and members, i could not vote for this resolution. now it will be interesting to see how this resolution is carried out. the visible step should be to achieve gender parity in the femm committee, which i strongly support and would be happy to give my place to one of my male colleagues for the second half of the term.
in writing. i did not support the draft report on mainstreaming gender equality in the european parliament's work because i believe that there is no need to create ever new instruments or institutions to address gender equality. the issue of gender equality is already in the work of existing institutions and the implementation of this principle is the task of all institutions without distinction, not just those responsible for its implementation. as in previous cases of this kind, the principle of subsidiarity, which must be respected in this area, should be recalled.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of gender mainstreaming in the work of the european parliament, as i believe it is an essential step towards achieving real equality between men and women. this report has the ambition of integrating a gender perspective into the content of the laws and promoting gender equality in the administration and the decision-making process surrounding the law. while i believe that the european parliament should set an example for other european and national institutions to follow, i decided to vote against the creation of a post of standing rapporteur on gender mainstreaming as i do not see the added value and it would create more bureaucracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe there has to be special attention paid to women refugees, especially those fleeing their countries of origin together with their children, as they are more vulnerable and they face many challenges throughout their very risky journey. it has to be said that cases of physical violence, abuse or other forms of discrimination were registered. our goal should be to point out such cases and make sure women refugees get the appropriate level of protection they need. on the other hand, i could not support some of the proposals of the rapporteur concerning reserves on lack of solidarity between the member states when it comes to their approach to refugees and asylum seekers. those statements are not objective, fact-based and, above all, are not within the scope of the report. also, i do not fully share the report’s call for full access of asylum seekers to public services with regard to education or employment services during the asylum process. these should be granted, but only to those whose asylum procedure has been concluded successfully.
in writing. ‒ although i do not support the eu’s general approach towards the refugee crisis, i voted in favour of this report. this report calls for the new eu migration and asylum policies and procedures to include gender-sensitive measures to ensure the safety of women seeking asylum, many of whom travel with young children. the text rightly highlights the vulnerable situation women refugees are facing. these women often fled gendered forms of persecution – including rape, sexual violence, female genital mutilation, forced marriage in their country of origin, undertaking a perilous journey during which they may be victims of sexual violence, trafficking or other violent crimes. concretely, the report calls for member states to ensure women’s and children’s specific needs are met throughout the asylum process and in reception centres.
in writing. - i voted against it. i don't agree with the special treatment of sexual minorities in the asylum process. this will only result in asylum seekers purposely claiming to be sexual minorities in order to have a better chance of being granted asylum.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a draft report on the situation of refugees and asylum seekers in the eu. it's a very sensitive and complex issue. i am fully aware of the complexity of the situation of women, and in particular women with children, who find themselves without help and living in precarious conditions while waiting for their asylum applications to be processed in one of the eu member states. but i think the report misses the essential themes, namely how to deal with the situation in conflict zones so that women do not have to flee their homes, how to combat the smugglers who are responsible for so many lives, how to protect the eu's external borders and how to combat illegal migration. we are only concerned with the consequences, but we fail to focus on the causes and prevention of problems, which is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i am proud to say that, on international women’s day, there was such a favourable response in the european parliament for this report which will not only protect but support women refugees and asylum seekers in the european union. the enormity of the humanitarian crisis currently facing europe is a cause for grave concern and has unfairly left women in a less favourable position. women seeking asylum should have access to high quality specialised services at the earliest possible opportunity and parliament promotes in its report their access to these services. i believe that the european union will move in the right direction to end gender-based discrimination and violence when the refugees enter european union territory. during this crisis an opportunity presents itself to create better practices in the treatment of women asylum seekers and refugees in europe.
in writing. ‒ the situation of refugee women deserves our attention, we must take into account their vulnerability, the threat of violence and their obligations towards their children. that is why i supported the epp resolution, which takes the refugee situation with the necessary understanding. we want to show solidarity, but we cannot guarantee them more care and rights than women and children have in the european union. that's why i didn't support the honeyball report. i am very sorry that meps have used the migration crisis to promote 'gender' ideology in asylum and integration policy. the report includes provisions calling on frontex to take a 'gendered' approach to its work, calling on member states to guarantee women unrestricted access to quality education, health services, employment and housing, to guarantee women broad access to sexual and reproductive health and other rights that go beyond the eu's remit. i am convinced that refugees must be treated with the utmost respect for the dignity of human life and assisted wherever possible. but it is not possible to exploit this situation and promote a 'gender' ideology through a resolution. the resolution was, moreover, found to have a rather narrow majority.
in writing. i did not support the draft report on the situation of refugees and asylum seekers in the eu, as i believe that this important issue needs to be addressed in a comprehensive way and within the debate on the reform of the asylum system in the european union. while i do not deny that the situation of women, especially in refugee camps, requires special attention and that the safety of women and children must be a priority, i believe that this can be achieved either through 'conventional' humanitarian aid that is provided in sufficient quantities and is primarily targeted, or through asylum procedures that take account of the individual situation of each applicant. i believe that some of the wording in the draft report has unfortunately been misused and could therefore be counterproductive in the present situation. this does not change the fact that humanitarian aid must be provided, that conditions of dignity must be ensured for all refugees, and that the international, union and national legal frameworks must be respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the european union. if i do not share all the provisions of the resolution, it recalls important facts. indeed women account on average for one third of people who apply for asylum. between the start of 2015 and november of the same year, some 900 000 people crossed the mediterranean to reach europe’s coasts, and women and children accounted for around 38% of the total. the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) reported that, as of january 2016, women and children account for 55% of those reaching greece to seek asylum in the eu. even in countries deemed safe, women may suffer gender-based persecution and thus have a legitimate request for protection. gendered forms of violence and discrimination constitute persecution and should be valid reasons for seeking asylum in the eu and that this should be reflected in new gender guidelines.
madam president, before the winter began, most of us thought that the migration wave would be allowed to continue, and perhaps naively assumed that it would gradually cease. but that has not happened, and europe faces an even greater disaster than it did a year ago at this time. it's time to realize we have more problems than we thought. as i have seen with my own eyes, greece is not managing the influx of refugees, and the situation, especially on the macedonian-greek border, is completely intolerable in the long term. if there is no rapid change, greece will not be able to protect our common schengen area in the future either. no program could have done that. so let's talk about the specifics and how we're going to operate. cooperation with the balkan states, partnership with turkey, the establishment of a common european border and coast guard are just some of the instruments that cannot save us in their own right.
madam president, on the contrary, i was an enthusiast. in fact, for me, this was one of the top priorities with which i came to the european parliament and i still remember my meeting with first vice-president timmermans in november 2014 where we exchanged views, and i can understand, mr timmermans, what you say today, that you had higher ambitions. so did i. i think that many of us did, but the reality too is that many of us had lower ambitions so what we stand in front of today is a compromise, a compromise which you called a glass half-full, maybe a bit more than half-full i would say, but i think it is a good agreement and i think that we can make it a full glass with implementation. i had the privilege to work closely with our negotiator, guy verhofstadt. i would not say what i am going to say now if he were present, but i think that, likewise his colleagues and partners, he did a very good job and i think that we have an agreement that we can implement today, and we can implement it so that the glass is, as i say, full. one example, very briefly, is the administrative burden. this is exactly what is a chance for us. if the commission will have the ability and the courage to show who proposes what, what happens in each sector and how member states behave, what is the difference between the proposal that was submitted and the legislation enacted, and what is in fact the act that was passed through the parliaments, the gold-plating, i think that for me this is satisfactory in comparison to what i was seeking and that was one in, one out. i think that is the tool with which we can deliver. thank you and it is up to us how we are going to implement this agreement.
madam president, i speak as chairman of the committee on legal affairs, whose remit includes improving the drafting of legislation. it's certainly a positive thing that we now have a new agreement. however, the european parliament has already expressed certain views on this matter in the past, which were only partially incorporated in the final text. so a few notes on a few aspects. firstly, impact assessment is an important tool for assessing the quality of legislation. such assessment shall include ensuring that the new rules do not create an excessive administrative burden for their users. the independence of impact assessments remains one of our highest priorities, which has not yet been fully achieved. secondly, the new agreement requires further follow-up to, for example, delegated and implementing acts. only then will the deal be complete. finally, we must also monitor the implementation of the agreement as a whole, because only then will we have a truly functional instrument that fulfils its role. the committee on legal affairs will therefore, together with the committee on constitutional affairs, monitor the interpretation and implementation of the new agreement, both through own-initiative reports and through a joint working group.
the proposal for a revision of the posting of workers directive was a considerable surprise to us. the same problem was already addressed by the previous regulation, which is an acceptable and balanced compromise between the principle of freedom of movement for services and the need to ensure adequate protection for workers, including minimum wage rules. so i ask at the outset: what is the commission's aim in revising the legal framework at a time when the deadline for implementing the existing rules has not even passed and the results are not known? is such an approach contrary to the principles of better regulation to which the commission has committed itself? the commission expects the new revision to create a better competitive environment and to ensure better pay conditions. but will this be true across europe? does the commission not fear a reduction in the competitiveness of undertakings from economically less developed member states and a tacit threat to the jobs of posted workers? has the commission taken into account the real economy in the member states, including the different wage levels? i am afraid that the new proposal will lead to a dispute between member states and will increase the barriers to labour mobility once again. the new concept of rules is not legally defined at eu or member state level and will have a negative impact on the cross-border business of smes, which are the backbone of the european economy. a europe that is not competitive internally cannot succeed globally. and i think that's what we need most right now, competitiveness. so i can assure you that the alde group will do everything to preserve europe's competitiveness and its basic principles.
commissioner, i listened with interest to your explanation of the concept of a social triple a rating and i understood that it should be an expression of the high social standard we have in the countries of the european union and the use of existing and new policies. you've named some yourself. i think it is very important to emphasise the promotion of reconciliation between work and family life, which you have also mentioned. i think that the most discriminated against group in society today are young families with children, who, instead of saving for a rich pension, invest in their children, in our european perspective. and i ask myself: how do we support these young parents? i would remind all my colleagues who are calling for even greater protection of workers, for more posted workers at european level, that we need employers to do this. we need to have competitive businesses. and that also requires transparent and stable legislative conditions. i would therefore also point out that if you are going to proceed with the revision of the 1996 posting of workers directive, then you need to ensure that a competitive business environment is maintained.
madam president, i was originally going to speak about something else, however, my colleague's previous contribution provoked me to change the content of my speech a bit. i think the exact opposite of my colleague. in my view, the increase in competitiveness is precisely what leads to an increase in social protection. it is not that europe will be economically strong and thus social protection if we are lagging behind in competitiveness. that's not really the case in my opinion. and as regards the needs of the member states, unlike my predecessor, i think it is important to ensure that there is a certain degree of freedom for the nation states. the greatest threat to the level of social protection is that we will legislate too much and not leave room for the member states.
madam president, i also want to support this proposal for a directive and the opinion of the report. in my opinion, it is important to ensure that the actual contradiction of the criminal proceedings and the equality of arms. equality of arms where necessary. that is, when a child is clearly disadvantaged by his age in the criminal proceedings, then that disadvantage we must undoubtedly balance to some extent. i also wonder whether the scope of the rights granted or those to be uniformised in a european uniform is sufficient. i agree with my colleague mr pospisil, who spoke earlier. on the other hand, i must point out, and i understand, that many of those affected by this crime, especially the intentional one, the child, are calling for as much information as possible to be made public. but it is also a fact that criminal activity, for example by children, is decreasing in the czech republic as a result of the czech legislation. so it's not entirely easy to judge this conflict between the right of publicity and the right of privacy of the child and his future development.
in writing. what seemed at first to be a very good solution to the migration crisis has now gotten completely out of hand for both the member states and the commission. the pressure on the european union budget is unsustainable. the council of the european union should take note of this as soon as possible. of course, i support european financial aid to member states and to human beings who are directly affected by the migration crisis. what i cannot continue to support, however, is the arbitrary decision by member states to create ad hoc european financial instruments without consulting the european parliament, which is one of the official budgetary authorities. these instruments, which parliament was given as a foregone conclusion, undermine the principle of the unity of the european budget and raise questions of budgetary transparency and accountability. it is therefore necessary that the next instruments are established under the standard legislative procedure and that the budget for 2017 and the multiannual financial framework are prepared for them. at the moment, with the negotiations for further financial support to turkey, it is clear that the european union's funds are simply not enough. i refuse to support instant solutions such as transferring funds from one envelope to another or cancelling programmes already approved, especially where they concern environmental, public health or cohesion policy. i support a european solution to the migration crisis, but certainly not at the expense of other, but equally important, policies.
mr president, please do not get me wrong, i do see progress at the summit with turkey and i know that we are in partnership with turkey. sometimes we cannot choose our partners even if they confiscate media or crackdown on human rights organisations or whatever else. but what we can do is influence the content of the agreement and i am not really sure that the deal that has been struck with turkey will lead us in the right direction. firstly, i can understand that we are legalising, maybe, migration – but not necessarily under our norms. however, i do not see us limiting migration in this respect. exchanging for visa liberalisation? how on earth is it connected? even more – i negotiated the czech accession to the eu – we will be opening chapters with turkey at the same time as erdoğan does what he does. so for me it is a question of a comprehensive agreement that we expect from the summit, with concrete deadlines, concrete measures and concrete issues in place. one final remark on the internal market: i am very much in agreement with the minister but i would like to see also progress, in practice. the fourth railway package trilogue, madam minister: move the council please.
mr president, let me start with migration and turkey. i believe and i agree with the presidency that only a european plan that will be realised by all participants will bring us closer to a solution. i agree also that negotiations with turkey are a very important part of the plan. this has many limitations, for example as mentioned by our chair, mr weber, but it is very important. we must be very sensitive to our values. i am surprised at the discussion about money. the money that we should give to the refugees in turkey is important and is justified if it is distributed properly. we should not forget that our agreement with turkey is only part of the plan as, most likely, with the closing of the balkan route, the other routes will be used more frequently and we must be ready for that. secondly, let me talk a little bit about the economy as was mentioned by commission vice-president dombrovskis. i guess that the situation in the global economy is very important, and obviously we must be concerned at what is going on, concerned at the situation in china, but what is the most important for the huge and the rich economy of the european union – the economy of the part of the world that is close by – is the domestic situation, the stability of domestic demand and investment. this is the only way of assuring our main priority, and growth and jobs. that means providing that the economy will be competitive. that is why respecting the rules, those included in the european semester too, is a key priority, and the commission has my full support in implementing them. last but not least, let me mention one issue that is not on the agenda. this is the situation in eastern ukraine, where the situation is getting more dangerous. fighting is going on, people’s lives are under threat and this is a zone of instability just close to the european union. we should be reflecting that more in our policy and not expect that we can normalise the situation with russia, because russia is a very important part of this problem.
mr. chairman, two notes on the summit. one positive first. it's good to see that there is finally an effort to separate refugees from syria from refugees from elsewhere, and that there is an effort to separate refugees from war from refugees from purely economic reasons, and that there is also an effort to finally do something to prevent the millions of people who are already in turkey, and that's three million people, from making the journey to europe. that they'll have access to the labor market in turkey is good news. that it will cost europe something is quite clear, but i think we have to do everything we can to make sure that these people stay where they are and do not go to europe en masse. what's bad news is that there's this attempt to swap out, one by one, the refugees who are being relocated in turkey for those who are already somewhere else. this is a return to a system of dysfunctional quotas, it is yet another attempt to violate the sovereignty of states, it is even a violation of the existing relocation agreements that the european union agreed to last september, and it is basically just social engineering that is hidden behind the pompous words of solidarity and joint solutions, and this is unacceptable.
commissioner, madam minister, it is good to hear that the european union expects at least moderate growth this year, even though some countries still have to meet their obligations. it is necessary to see how the policies of the european union contribute to this growth. this year too we must adopt measures, both legislative and financial, to promote employment and growth. i would like to say that i consider the agreement with turkey to be essential, but it must not be seen as the only solution that can save itself. we must, of course, continue to work for peace in the middle east, for border guards on the external border of the european union. i would like the european commission and the member states to know how these funds will be used when deciding to allocate 3 billion to turkey. they should have them under control. i personally see this one-for-one exchange as an effort to prevent and support illegal migration.
in writing. - i got held up. this is a proposal which concerns directives requiring a reduction in the sulphur content of fuels. although i do not agree with the very principle of these directives, that the eu sets fuel parameters for the member states, i abstained because this vote was only a codification, which does not change the actual content of the directives, but only simplifies them.
in writing. ‒ sulphur, which is naturally present in small quantities in petroleum and coal, is harmful to man and to the environment when combusted. in fact, it has been recognised that emissions of sulphur dioxide are one of the causes of acidification and particle formation in the eu, and are one of the factors causing damage to ecosystems, biodiversity and human health. this is why i voted for this proposed directive, which suggests reducing the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels. i hope this will be a step forward in protecting our health, our ecosystems and biodiversity.
in writing. this report concerns a proposal for a council regulation relating to the prevention of the diversion of trade in certain key medicinal products into the european union. a large number of poor developing countries face problems in accessing essential medicines to treat communicable diseases. these countries are heavily dependent on imported medicines because local production is not sufficient to meet the requirements. the price differences between developed and developing countries are evident, and there is a need to ensure access to essential medicines for the treatment of communicable diseases at an affordable price for developing countries. it is necessary to avoid the diversion of products sold at reduced prices to developing markets to developed markets where products are sold at higher prices. the aim of this regulation is to avoid such a practice and to prevent the import of products with tiered prices into the eu so that these products remain on the markets of the poorest developing countries. it is therefore appropriate to support the draft regulation as it is important to establish the procedures to identify the products, countries and diseases falling within the scope of this regulation.
in writing. - i got held up. whatever the substance of the 2003 regulation prohibiting the importation into the eu of certain medicinal products, it is merely a codification, that is to say a simplification of the text, which does not alter the substance of the existing regulation.
in writing. ‒ suffering from scarce local manufacturing, many of the poorest developing countries are in urgent need of access to affordable essential medicines, which is why pharmaceutical manufacturers have been encouraged to make imported medicine available at heavily discounted prices. while most developed countries have put in place rules to prevent importation of these discounted medicines into their markets, these rules are becoming insufficient when large amounts of discounted medicines are sold. this is discouraging pharmaceutical manufacturers from making this essential price effort. i voted in favour of this proposal to remedy this situation. the regulation will put in place stricter rules to make sure that such medicines remain on the poorest developing country markets and to further encourage pharmaceutical manufacturers to make medicines available at accessible prices.
- i voted against. i do not agree with the principle that member states should automatically exchange with andorra data on taxpayers' bank accounts. i also disagree with the principle that andorra should have to pay tax on interest on deposits to the governments of depositors. i consider automatic exchange to be spying on citizens and collecting taxes for the bullying of a small state. if individual states want such an agreement, i do not agree that the eu should be a party to it.
in writing. i was pleased to vote in favour of an agreement with andorra on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts to take place from 2018, with the exchange of information collected as from 1 january 2017. it is necessary to expose all non-transparent activities and articles that allow multinational corporations, other entities and individuals to avoid paying their fair share of taxes. i am pleased that the agreement with andorra will allow for the correct identification of taxpayers, the enforcement of tax laws in cross-border situations and the improvement of the ability to detect tax evasion. the approval of the agreement is proof that we are moving in the right direction and that even countries that until recently had the official status of tax havens are able to respond correctly to the european union's initiatives.
in writing. as a social democrat, i am committed to greater equality and transparency in today's world, and it is this agreement with andorra on the automatic exchange of financial account information, which the european union signed in february 2016, that should achieve greater international tax cooperation and improve tax compliance. the agreement should enter into force on 1 january 2017 and represents an important step in the continuing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the aim will be to address the situation where the taxpayer tries to hide capital from which no tax has been deducted. and since the exchange of information will be automatic, the new agreement will enable the tax authorities of the eu member states and andorra to identify correctly and unambiguously the taxpayers concerned, to apply and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations, to estimate the likelihood of tax evasion and to avoid unnecessary further investigation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment of the agreement that will tighten andorra’s lenient tax laws. under this new agreement, eu member states and andorra will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts held on their territories by each other’s residents as of 2018. this is an important tool to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid, especially in cross-border situations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report appointing fausto parente as the executive director of the eiopa, which is the eu’s financial regulatory institution. i am confident that mr parente will provide a knowledgeable, reliable and forward-thinking leadership to one of the currently most challenging areas for european politics, namely insurance and pensions. in fact, he distinguishes himself through a career in supervisory regulations and policies at national and international level, and is currently head of the supervisory regulation and policy directorate at the italian insurance supervisor, ivass – istituto di vigilanza sulle assicurazioni.
mr president, i admit that this vote was not easy for me, nor for many of my colleagues. i'm not a big fan of the european union talking into criminal justice policy. on the other hand, the positive aspects of the proposal that i have mentioned outweigh certain reservations i have about the scope of the directive, such as the guaranteed rights. and that is why i have finally decided to support this draft report. it's important to me that this ensures a basic equality of arms for children, which is balanced by their young age. that the safeguards that are being put in place are precisely to balance the way in which they can and cannot proceed in this criminal proceeding. and it is a fact that the extension to 21 years is not the happiest, on the other hand, czech criminal law also knows the concept of the age of near-teenagers, so in this sense too i finally decided to support this report.
in writing. ‒ this regulation is particularly important precisely because it is aimed at the most vulnerable in our society children. i agree that children under investigation for criminal offences (or suspected of committing them) should be given a fair trial. due to their young age and immaturity, they are more vulnerable during criminal proceedings, and i therefore support the idea of unifying procedural rights in this matter and overlapping standards of child protection. children need to be treated with dignity and fairness. i consider the right to information to be absolutely essential, and i also welcome the right to legal aid, the presence of legal representation during proceedings or the protection of privacy.
in writing. children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings are at a very vulnerable age when they can easily turn to the wrong path. therefore, special attention must be paid to them in order to preserve their inherent development potential and subsequently to promote their reintegration into society. the directive aims to introduce procedural safeguards to ensure that children, that is to say persons under the age of 18, who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, are able to understand and observe those proceedings and to exercise their right to a fair trial, and to prevent children from re-offending and to promote their social integration. this objective is indicative enough that the establishment of common minimum rules for the protection of procedural rights of suspected or accused children should strengthen the confidence of member states in the criminal justice systems of other member states and thus improve mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters. each child who is a suspect or accused person in criminal proceedings should have the right to an individual assessment aimed at identifying their specific needs, as set out in article 7 of this directive. it is also essential that member states ensure that children are adequately informed about the rights set out in this directive.
in writing. - i got held up. i understand the requirement that persons under 18 accused of crimes be treated with care, sensitivity and with regard to their age, maturity and intellectual capacity, and that they should take into account the communication difficulties of the children. i also agree that 'criminal proceedings concerning children should be conducted in a way that does not intimidate children and that is sensitive to them.' on the other hand, i do not want the eu to impose on member states how they should treat juvenile defendants.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that, in line with european tradition, children and young people should be entitled to greater legal protection in criminal proceedings, taking into account their vulnerability and lower degree of maturity. in particular, i welcome the amendment to the right to privacy, which requires member states to ensure that court proceedings involving children are normally closed to the public or to allow courts or judges to decide whether such proceedings are closed to the public. i have a reservation about the provision adopted whereby member states, with full regard for freedom of expression and information and freedom and pluralism of the media, invite the media to adopt self-regulatory measures in order to achieve the objectives of protecting the privacy of children. first, it is a provision which is not enforceable by law. in addition, the call for self-regulatory measures falls short of the level of legal protection, for example in the czech republic, where there is a direct ban on the publication of the names and surnames of juveniles in criminal proceedings and information leading to their identification.
in writing. ‒ more than one million children in the european union face criminal charges every year. that's 12% of the total number of criminal justice procedures. it should be noted that a child is considered in this context to be any individual under the age of 18. the proposed directive aims to set minimum common standards for the rights and treatment of children who are prosecuted or accused. common rules should include the right to be represented by a lawyer during all interrogations, which should be simultaneously recorded in such cases. alternatives to detention should always be preferred, and if detention is necessary for any reason, due care and consideration must be guaranteed. i don't want to advocate for perpetrators of any age, but there are many, many cases where a criminal act is committed by a child who is being abused, or in self-defense. we need to keep that in mind and guarantee them a fair and dignified treatment by the law. i think the directive is a good one and will result in regulating the disproportionate psychological burden on these children.
in writing. i supported the report on the first reading of the draft directive which aims to establish a minimum standard of rights for children accused or suspected of criminal offences. the legal regulation of this issue varies from one member state to another, some states have a specialised court, others do not, the training requirements for those involved in child proceedings vary, and i could go on. the harmonisation of rules is important for strengthening trust between states in cross-border judicial cooperation. the directive ensures in particular the right of the child to information relevant to the exercise of other rights , to a fair defence, to the protection of privacy, to the protection of personal liberty, to a timely and proper hearing, and so on. i consider the emphasis on the protection of children's privacy or on the minimal use of the institution of detention to be crucial, as this limits the risks of excluding children from society by the conduct itself. the proposed amendment also develops cross-border procedural rules in relation to the european arrest warrant. in the czech republic, there are already a number of procedural safeguards for children in criminal proceedings, but the directive develops, for example, the rights of the holder of parental responsibility or puts more emphasis on the individual assessment of the case. i believe that the specific contribution to czech law will be the mandatory training of lawyers who will defend children in communication with children and in child psychology.
in writing. i supported the proposal for a directive on procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. the european commission estimates that more than one million children are exposed to criminal proceedings in the eu every year. they are significantly disadvantaged by their young age and therefore need to be guaranteed procedural rights reflecting their specific needs in criminal proceedings. to date, only a few member states have specific legislation on the criminal proceedings against children, and it is often fragmented. a set of minimum standards, which would be accompanied and adapted to the specific requirements of the children throughout the procedure, seems to be the appropriate solution. i welcome the introduction of a single list of procedural rights throughout the eu and have therefore voted in favour of this proposal containing it. in particular, these include the right to the mandatory assistance of a lawyer, the right to information for parents or other designated persons, the right to be accompanied during criminal proceedings or the possibility for the court to decide that the proceedings are not public.
in writing. ‒ 1 million children undergo criminal proceedings every year, which is 12% of all offenders. this is why i believe it to be fundamental that we agree on minimum and equal standards to guarantee that every child receives a fair trial, as standards currently vary enormously. this will also prevent children from reoffending and enable them to reintegrate into society more easily. although member states have already signed the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and other international conventions protecting children’s rights, experience has shown that, at present, children’s rights are not being sufficiently protected at the various stages in criminal proceedings. the czech republic is one of only 6 member states to have a dedicated juvenile prosecution service.
mr president, i have supported these guidelines, which are important for the budget. for a general reason, i think that the european union does not need to waver in another important area, namely the budget. i believe that, for example, during last year's presidency, luxembourg showed us how to draw up and adopt the budget effectively. it was one of the very successful steps taken by the luxembourg presidency, and i am convinced that the current dutch presidency, but perhaps also the slovak presidency, will bring the budget for next year to a successful conclusion, as it did last year. i would very much like the budget to be drawn up with a certain amount of variability, with a certain amount of flexibility, because europe faces important challenges, whether it is the migration crisis, strategic investments, global tensions in europe's neighbourhood. these are all questions that the european budget must answer.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses very well priorities for the eu budget in 2017, including reflections of the migratory flows, security issues and economic targets. the eu should be able to balance requests to mobilise quick funds in order to help to solve critical situations on one side, and needs to finance sectors which help to boost growth and create new jobs. we should not get caught by what is considered to be an acute problem and have to keep in mind our long-term visions and priorities as they will shape the eu’s future. for that reason, i did not support the amendment calling for the commission’s proposal ‘as to how the eu budget can prompt member states towards a more balanced approach to solidarity.’ we’ve heard several times that lack of solidarity with refugees can lead to cut in the esif funds to particular member states. i do not want to see the eu budget going down this road as it represents a dangerous precedent.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the overall direction of parliament’s guidelines for preparation of the 2017 budget. however, i do have concerns with the call to the commission to use the budget to encourage more solidarity between member states in relation to the refugee crisis. i believe that no link should be drawn between unrelated policy areas in an effort to ‘blackmail’ member states into agreeing to something against their will. nevertheless, i support the calls for boosting investment in europe and for the budget to take into account economic forecasts. if used in the correct way, the european union budget can stimulate growth and investment in europe while helping member states develop their infrastructure and transport connections.
in writing. the european parliament resolution of 9 march 2016 on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget, section iii unfortunately, i could not in good conscience support the commission and decided to abstain. the text of the resolution was not, of course, very explicitly bad, but the part of the text 'the european parliament welcomes the principle and objectives of the refugee facility for turkey, to which eur 3 billion is to be contributed, and urges each member state to honour its political commitments and provide adequate financial support under the refugee facility for turkey package' i consider very problematic. i believe that the european parliament, as the only directly elected eu body, should not and should not limit itself to parroting the german chancellor. i think it is absolutely absurd to debate the issue of sending 3 billion euros to turkey without considering how it will be used. i've long warned against too accommodating a policy towards ankara. it is clear that turkey must be part of the migration problem. but it's not possible for a nato country to let isis fighters cross its borders, buy additional oil from isis, and then shoot down a plane of a country that is fighting isis in its spare time. and we can't send them billions of euros, introduce visa-free travel, and so on, and not feel like we're taking advantage of them.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the criticism of tax competition between member states. on the contrary, i consider that member states should be allowed to apply different corporate tax rates. i am not in favour of increasing the eu budget to help the eu deal with crises. on the contrary, money should remain in the hands of citizens and member states who are able to deal with crises such as the refugee crisis more effectively.
in writing. in the context of this report, i would like to recall that in the budgets for 2015 and 2016, the commission has in many cases not requested additional payment appropriations for a number of its crisis responses (eur 2 billion for greece, first migration initiatives) and instead has resorted to reallocating already existing resources. this has increased the pressure on payment appropriations in 2016 and beyond, potentially leading to a situation where there may again be insufficient funds to cover the actual needs of financial programmes across the different headings, with a direct impact on projects and citizens. there is thus a legitimate concern that, in addition to the delayed start of implementation of the 2014-2020 programmes, the situation at the end of the last mff is likely to be repeated in the form of an unprecedented level of outstanding commitments and an unsustainable accumulation of pending payment applications. it is therefore appropriate to consider whether unforeseen payment needs should not be covered by new appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget section iii. i did so because the report adopted an amendment which goes against the democratic principles on which the european union itself is founded. while i deeply respect the principle of solidarity, i do not intend to support any effort to encourage the european commission to start penalizing or otherwise motivating member states to change their current approach to the migration crisis. moreover, this amendment proposal is not in line with the current regulation no 1303/2013 on common provisions for the european structural and investment funds and with the regulations directly concerning the specific funds. i also do not understand why my colleagues have supported a proposal which is incompatible with the text of the report itself. it rightly points out, in the context of the migration crisis, the danger of undermining or hindering the implementation of other important european policies. europe is currently marked by economic divergence. how, then, do my colleagues intend to defend possible cuts to the poorest regions and the most vulnerable inhabitants? do they really want to be responsible for deepening existing disparities, including the uneven distribution of both the population and non-european migrants? european integration has been a positive project so far, with long-term benefits at all levels. i will therefore fight to ensure that this reality is not undermined by the efforts of populist politicians selling cheap passwords to their electorate.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain on this report, although i agree with the majority of the text, and in particular with the need to show solidarity and help the countries most affected by the migration crisis. but i cannot agree with the amendment adopted to make the common budget a coercive instrument, turning a voluntary solidarity contribution into a compulsory one. it is not just a political question, but also a matter of fact and procedure. what should be the criteria for assessing how solidarity-oriented each member state has been? i asked the european commission about this four months ago (see questions and answers) and the commission's response confirmed that there are no instruments to protect such a move. i also strongly disagree with the fact that the appropriations from the common budget for financial programmes across the various headings are being drawn arbitrarily by the commission without parliament's knowledge. i consider this to be a completely unjustified pressure on the part of the commission on the member states. it is totally unacceptable that the commission's actions should create a financial deficit at european level which would jeopardise the use of the european structural and investment funds.
‒ the european parliament, as one of the two arms of the eu budgetary authority, is involved in the budgetary process every year from the preparatory stage. through the budgetary guidelines adopted today, parliament sets out its priorities for the budget before the commission even submits its own proposal. i am pleased that, in addition to supporting the eu's main priorities of competitiveness, investment for growth and jobs, the text also addresses the migration and refugee crisis. it does so by highlighting the need to address current and future migration challenges in a more flexible way. the european union budget has been a key instrument in dealing with the current crisis. it should therefore include support for european agencies, the strengthening of humanitarian aid and other necessary measures to cope with and address the current situation and future challenges. given the current very fragile geopolitical situation, i also very much welcome the call for support for the eastern partnership countries. eu assistance to these countries should help them to progress in their reform efforts and also deepen their relations with the eu in the future. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report laying out guidelines for the 2017 budget, which is an important first step for drafting the 2017 budget. i certainly agree that the eu’s budget should both support the economic recovery by supporting investment and job creation and be flexible to be able to respond effectively to unforeseeable crisis situations, such as the refugee and migration crisis, terrorism or the instability of the global market we saw in 2015. i hope that the 2017 budget will further facilitate smes’ access to markets and funding, such as through europe’s programme for small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme). i am in fact convinced that the eu’s future, credibility and competitiveness lie in its capacity to innovate in key strategic sectors.
in writing. ‒ the interinstitutional agreement aims to ensure more transparent and functioning legislation, in particular by placing more emphasis on the results of impact assessments in the legislative process. parliament will also have a stronger role in the comitology consultation procedures. the new agreement will strengthen cooperation between the european institutions, improve regulation in the eu, allow for greater flexibility and reduce the administrative burden on our businesses. i think this is the right response by the union to citizens' declining trust in the european institutions, and i believe that greater transparency of eu legislation can only have a positive effect for all concerned.
- i voted against. the proposal is nothing but empty words about the need for greater transparency, consideration, democratic legitimacy, etc. in the legislative process. it is false to say that 'the treaty of lisbon gives national parliaments an important role'. better legislation will not come from a new method, but from restraint in the way legislation is made and from respect for the democratic will of individual member states, so that eu proposals are not completely detached from the reality and common sense of ordinary people.
in writing. i supported the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, which i consider to have contributed to the establishment of common priorities by the commission and the council, and to the commitment by the institutions to start negotiations within six months on practical measures to inform the ep about the negotiation of international treaties. i also find the new obligation for the ep and the council to carry out impact assessments of changes adopted in the legislative process beneficial, although the scope of the changes to be covered will still need to be clarified. a considerable effort will still be needed to put the agreement into practice, but it is important that the basic framework is already outlined.
in writing. ‒ i believe there is general agreement that there should be a single interinstitutional agreement within the european union to improve the legislative process between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. i consider it necessary to provide for measures to improve the quality of legislative proposals submitted, in particular, by the european commission. the quality of the impact assessment of draft legislation and the equal status of both legislators throughout the legislative process should also not be overlooked. i do not accept that any informal exchanges of views should take place within the legislative process of the european union, which would create a space for non-transparent interinstitutional negotiations. i therefore welcome the agreement which will contribute to the development of more open and transparent relations between the union institutions, which will ultimately lead to better regulation, in particular in the interests of the citizens of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the better regulation agenda was one of the key topic during the election campaign and with the final agreement, we are about to deliver on it, as promised to the czech people. better regulation and administration burden reduction is the essential tool if the europe wants to find the path the growth and competitiveness again. it is of paramount importance that it delivers results. it will definitely improve the way the eu regulates and its impact on european businesses and first of all smes. that is why i very much welcome the conclusion of this inter-institutional agreement, which was one of our priorities during this mandate, and i appreciate the fact that our group was the leading one throughout the negotiations. some elements are lacking, but crucial points such as better impact assessments, more transparency and the creation of an annual burden survey are present. if correctly implemented, this agreement will improve eu regulation and decrease the administration burden for our businesses.
in writing. ‒ the agreement with philip morris international has partially served its purpose, as there has been a significant decrease in the smuggling of goods into the eu since its conclusion. in addition, there have been substantial changes in legislation: we now have the tobacco products directive, which is a pan-european cigarette tracking and tracing system from 2019, on the one hand, and the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, ratified by five member states, on the other. unfortunately, at the same time, there has been a significant increase in the market share of non-branded cigarettes. we must focus on controlling the illicit trade and counterfeiting of tobacco products in the eu. the current situation where the tobacco industry conducts seizure control in its own laboratories is not ideal, but until the tpd comes into force, there is no better solution. at least that kind of control is still better than no control at all. any loophole could serve as an open door for criminal groups. it is therefore our duty to ensure that illicit trade in tobacco products has no place at all in the eu, starting with active prevention and ending with sanctions to the extent of eradication.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that a common goal throughout europe should be to reduce the health-related damages of tobacco use. in my view this should be a long term priority of health services and governments in all member states. the pmi agreement aims to reduce the trade in illicit tobacco products in europe. although i do have concerns regarding the fact that tobacco companies are involved in the anti-contraband and anti-counterfeit detection, i believe that when the agreement lapses, there should be no regulatory gap before the entry into force of the tobacco products directive and the who’s framework convention on tobacco control. i would also point out that the pmi agreement has returned large amounts of money to the public purse, and we must therefore continue to reduce contraband and counterfeit tobacco trade in europe.
in writing. i voted against all the proposals by the political groups on the eu's agreement with philip morris, although in the individual points i supported calls for the eu not to conclude such agreements anymore. but i did not agree with the calls for further eu tobacco directives. therefore, as the eu's agreement with the tobacco company is expiring, i voted against in the final vote. i am absolutely opposed to the corporatist principle that the eu should make such ad hoc agreements with corporations, accept money from them and give up the right to sue corporations. the eu's anti-corruption agency olaf is in a conflict of interest if it collects money from philip morris international.
in writing. ‒ i accept that agreements with tobacco companies may have had some positive results in the fight against counterfeit and smuggled cigarettes, but i am in favour of a systemic approach in the form of legislative and regulatory instruments. moreover, it appears that the biggest problem is counterfeit cigarettes of lesser known brands, which are not and cannot be covered by these agreements. i therefore believe that the commission should focus on the swift and thorough implementation of the tobacco products directive as a systemic solution to the problem of counterfeit and smuggled cigarettes.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that today the european parliament has prevented the extension of the existing agreement between the eu and philip morris international. i see no reason why these and other similar agreements should continue. it is in the interests of the tobacco companies themselves to continue to participate independently in the fight against smugglers of tobacco products. the current agreement is outdated and does not respond to today's challenges, such as the so-called cheap whites, whose sale on eu territory causes large tax losses to member states every year. therefore, effective tracking and tracing mechanisms need to be established to address this problem effectively and at the same time be independent of the tobacco companies. the renewal of this agreement would also constitute a conflict between the interests of the tobacco industry and the interests of public health. the eu has committed to the framework convention on tobacco control. the commission has also identified a number of other measures that could be considered as part of the union's response to the global financial crisis. i therefore want to call on all member states to ratify this directive as soon as possible, not only to join the fight against the illicit trade in tobacco products but also to take a step forward in the interest of public health.
in writing. ‒ having been a facilitator of social dialogue in an independent capacity between the commission and a private tobacco company i have decided to abstain on every resolution.
mr president, i would very much like it if, of course, any bilateral issue between individual states did not impede this accession process of macedonia. i congratulate the rapporteur on the report he has presented. it is a fact that macedonia has to some extent fallen short of the expectations we had associated with its accession talks. i agree that macedonia needs to be included, and then of course it can also, i suppose, count on our full support in its accession talks, in its path to the european union. these questions, which have been legitimately raised by my colleagues, cannot be overlooked merely because this country needs our help at this time. the representatives of this country must also really get involved, and i say this as the former chairman of the group of friends of the czech republic and macedonia.
madam president, while in the last case we are talking about macedonia, i think that everyone has raised eyebrows at the delay in the accession process of that country, in the case of montenegro i too would like to commend the progress that this country has made. the fact is that montenegro is really at the top of the list of countries heading for the european union at this moment, and i want to congratulate that country on that, of course. mr. rush here spoke of the field of internal security and justice. i would also like to talk about the issue of depoliticizing the public administration, that is, the public service, which should really be depoliticized according to the rules. this is very important for montenegro to also fulfil as an accession requirement for talks with the european union. and in conclusion, i would like to say that although montenegro is currently experiencing some internal political problems, its people are undoubtedly moving towards the european union.
draftsman of the committee on agriculture and rural development. madam president, in the one minute i have to devote to the european medicines agency, i would like to thank rapporteur tănăsescu for accepting a number of comments from our agri committee. i would like to express some doubts about this commission proposal as regards the structure and level of fees paid to the agency and the way in which the remuneration of the competent authorities of the member states is determined. those fees may not be fixed by means of an implementing act. the european parliament should be fully involved in the setting of fees payable to the agency, as is the case with pharmacovigilance legislation. and this in the form of full co-decision. this is already in the draft report by mr tănăsescu. it is necessary to introduce in the new regulation a number of references to veterinary medicinal products and to clearly define the role of the european medicines agency in the authorisation and supervision of veterinary medicinal products through a centralised procedure. i want to support the requirement that the new measures take account of the specific features of the veterinary sector and that the fees be accessible to this sector.
commissioner, thank you for your reply. i hope and believe that it is necessary to face the past and ensure that the mistakes are not repeated. we need to compensate the victims, even if we can't make them healthy again, but it's a debt for poor health care that the state should guarantee. medicines and their development, use and healthcare are exactly what cannot be left to the free market, because it is human health and lives that are at stake. in this respect, i have a report from the czech ministry of health that there are no known cases of thalidomide use in the czech republic that would lead to harm to health and subsequently to lawsuits and litigation. this is also likely because contergan containing thalidomide was not used, registered or traded in the former czechoslovakia. therefore, this injury did not arise. but i am even more in favour of the colleagues from spain, the united kingdom and germany who have spoken here to demand that these victims be compensated. lessons must also be learned for the future within the european union and great caution must be exercised when developing and marketing new medicines. health must be the priority, not the profits of pharmaceutical companies. i am convinced that the czech republic is an example of good practice in this respect, as we have good prevention and strict rules on the use of thalidomide and the marketing of new medicinal products.
in writing. the tragedy of thalidomide use by pregnant women has shown the importance of adopting european medicines legislation and ensuring the safety of medicines. but the effects of thalidomide on thousands of children in the 1950's and 1960's need to be faced. it is completely unacceptable that the manufacturer of this substance apologized to those who have to live with the disability caused by its product only in 2012. as the age of the victims increases, so do their health problems and the need for appropriate care. compensation to ensure a decent living should be available to all those affected by thalidomide, regardless of the country in which they live.
the question posed by the blue card. i have a specific question for you. you've actually been criticizing in a way the way whistleblowers are treated in the european union. what do you think about the opening presentation, do you think the approach of the current commission is trying to change the attitude towards whistleblowers or is the current commission again leaving the people you named here to be ostracised?
commissioner, we in the european people's party believe that the european union is founded on values such as transparency, integrity and the protection of human rights. the european union has a duty to ensure that the fundamental rights and freedoms of all those who choose to stand out from the crowd are protected and to draw attention to violations of these values. whistleblowers are one element of the control mechanisms that ensure that power is not concentrated in the wrong hands and misused for the wrong purposes. we need to ensure that these controls are adequately protected in our legal environment, and that includes mr. assange. despite my personal reservations about mr. assange, we cannot ignore his legacy, which is of enormous importance to us in understanding the complexities of international affairs. a lot of people have a great interest in sweeping certain issues under the carpet, and it's no wonder that people like julian assange are just uncomfortable. but we must remember that whistleblowers who are uncomfortable can very easily fall victim to fabricated accusations and persecution, which we, the members of the european parliament and the representatives of the european union, have to prevent. therefore, i am inclined to believe that the imprisonment of julian assange should be terminated. and he should be granted international legal protection. if we as the european union do not provide adequate protection to assange and other whistleblowers, we will send the wrong signal to anyone who intends to expose any crimes.
mr president, i think that there is a real need for internationally coordinated action. that the international community coordinates fully and that the european union is at the forefront of this coordination. i am very glad that the commission does not underestimate this issue. that we can say that not only are we at the top of the science and can provide our capabilities, but that we should also coordinate not only these scientists, but also the member states, coordinate the various crisis plans. this is what we really expect from the european union's approach. we need to learn from the way that ebola was handled, for example, and do the same in this particular case. i sit in the czech republic on the national sports council and i can tell you that many athletes are very afraid of what the situation will be in brazil. we should reassure them and offer our solutions to help solve this international problem.
madam president, commissioner, we all know in this room that freedom of expression is a fundamental prerequisite of democracy, not only for individual citizens but especially for journalists. to prevent the free exchange of opinions is not only undemocratic but also counterproductive, because the spread of independent information can be restricted, but it can never be completely suppressed. it is doubly reprehensible when the state uses prosecutorial charges for example drug possession to suppress freedom of speech, as is happening in kazakhstan. i myself had the opportunity to meet in person with representatives of the independent media in kazakhstan and i would therefore like to draw attention to the inaccuracy in recital d of our resolution. journalist julia kozlov was not cleared of all charges. she's still being charged with disseminating false information, which could result in a sentence of up to seven years. therefore, her case needs to be followed and supported, as well as all others who are fighting for freedom of expression in kazakhstan.
madam president, i'm following up on your colleague castald. indeed, the new criminal code that has been adopted in kazakhstan is causing great concern and great emotion. the honourable member has mentioned one aspect of the criminal law which is established, i would mention the other. that's a restriction on freedom of association. kazakhstan is clearly afraid, the ruling regime there, if people will be able to gather, if they will be able to demonstrate. of course, independent media is the main hallmark of a free democratic rule of law, but freedom of association is also one of those essential components of the rule of law. parliamentary elections were also mentioned. well, i'm concerned about how the parliamentary elections will go when the presidential elections that were held, the candidates who were against mr. nazarbayev, they themselves said in the campaign that he was the best candidate. it is only an illusion, which unfortunately kazakhstan presents to us as an illusion of the rule of law. this idea, this notion is of course very remote. and it is important that the european union simply be active in this matter.
member of the commission.– madam president, the european union closely follows the human rights situation in kazakhstan. freedom of expression should be guaranteed under kazakhstan’s constitution. it is a matter of international human rights – and we see human dimension commitments – and this is priority for the european union. the european union has been at the forefront of calling for an improvement of the situation, and has consistently raised issues related to freedom of expression in its bilateral discussions with kazakhstan. the european union is concerned at the increasing pressure on the independent press. over the past two years a number of publications have been shut down or have received disproportionate fines. we believe that this not only has an impact on the publications concerned, but also leads others to exercise self-censorship. there are also limitations on freedom of expression online, most recently seen with the arrest and prosecution of a number of bloggers for statements made on social media. we welcome the fact that three of these bloggers were recently released, though we deplore that they were released with restrictions imposed on their movement. our concerns focus not only on specific individual cases, but also the legislative framework which provides for criminal sanctions, for defamation, denigration of honour and dignity. in particular, we have urged kazakhstan to consider revising article 174 of the criminal code, which imposes criminal sanctions for broadly worded offences and has been used to prosecute activists and bloggers. the european union consistently emphasised the importance of freedom of expression for the development of a democratic society in kazakhstan throughout the process of negotiating the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement. during her visit to astana on 21 december last year to sign this agreement the vice-president/high representative raised with her counterparts the importance of strengthening the resilience of societies through the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the european union has also been consistent in empowering civil society in kazakhstan and promoting press freedom and the freedom of expression under the european instrument for democracy and human rights. the european union stands ready to work together with all partners concerned in addressing this particular issue.
in writing. the eu-kazakhstan partnership is gradually growing stronger with the ambition to become a strategic one. in order to achieve this it has to be clear that both sides share the same basic democratic values and principles. freedom of expression is one of those principles that we have to protect and promote. cases of imprisonment of opposition politicians such as vladimir kozlov, and convictions of journalists and bloggers show that kazakh authorities must be urged to respect these rights. that is why i support this motion for a resolution.
author. mr commissioner, we find the case of giulia regeni truly frightening, because it raises concerns for all of us about the safety of our stay in egypt. the european union is still working closely with the country and is counting on it as a strategic partner in the future. such cases are therefore all the more shocking in the context of egypt's further development and the new constitution. i'm glad that egypt has agreed to allow a foreign team, an italian team, to investigate for the first time in history. that's certainly a step forward, but it's not enough. i would therefore like to call on the egyptian authorities, on behalf of the european people's party, to make every effort to ensure the safety of all citizens of the european union, regardless of their political or religious affiliation, and to investigate this very serious case.
for the ppe group. madam president, it must be admitted that egypt is not in an easy situation today. however, this in no way justifies disproportionate measures by the public authorities which grossly infringe fundamental human rights and freedoms. the case of giulia regeni is an extraordinary tragedy, but perhaps even worse is the fact that it is one of the cases of institutionalized practice. it's that the state's authorities deal with inconvenient people in a way that is not at all in keeping with the standards of a modern state. egypt wants to be, but it's not, given the content of the constitutional charter of january 2014. the reason is clear. the discrepancy between what is written in the constitution and how it is applied is intolerable and must be condemned. hundreds, thousands of people have disappeared at the hands of the egyptian security forces. the only conclusion to be drawn is that the regime does not meet the requirements of a democratic state governed by the rule of law.
madam president, first of all i share the deep sympathy for the family and the countrymen of giulio regeni. i subscribe to the fact that unconditionally this has to be independently investigated. but i am concerned that this is ‘just’ one out of hundreds and thousands of cases. i really wonder what the authorities and institutions are shifting with egypt. but what concerns me even more is that yesterday we spoke about the relevance of the partnership with turkey, and despite what erdoğan is doing, we will rushing into the liberalisation of visas and will be opening chapters. a few minutes ago we discussed kazakhstan. we have signed an agreement at a time when we know what kind of a regime we are dealing with. so, again, egypt is a relevant partner and i subscribe to it, i understand that. but commissioner, for once please leave your notes aside and give us a clue as to how we should refine and shape our policy towards egypt so that we really contribute to a different situation in the future and a really strong partnership.
in writing. ‒ the eu must help tunisia to succeed in the difficult transition the country has engaged in. this means we should support tunisians in building a solid and credible democracy but also in developing their economy and creating jobs. the latter is the objective of this proposal, which is why i voted in favour. this measure allows for an additional 70 000 tonnes of its virgin olive oil to be imported duty free into the eu in 2016/17. the tunisian olive sector indirectly provides employment to more than one million people, representing one-fifth of the total agricultural employment in the country. these temporary measures will have no impact on the total volume of tunisian olive oil exported to the eu.
in writing. - i got held up. the proposal allows tunisia to import 91,000 tonnes of olive oil duty-free to the eu for two consecutive years instead of 56,000 tonnes. it's a small partial release of the store. i'm in favor of duty-free trade because i believe that if we allow tunisians to manufacture things at home and import them into the eu, they will find jobs at home and they won't try to escape to europe. free trade is good for both sides. i think that trade with tunisia needs to be liberalized in its entirety and it is unworthy of parliament to negotiate such a trivial change. by my abstention, i allowed the bill to pass, even though i would have preferred a more substantial trade liberalization with tunisia.
in writing. ‒ tunisia represents a case of hope in a region marked by instability and poverty. however, the additional burden put on the tunisian economy following the terrorist attacks pose a serious threat to the success of the path to democracy tunisia has courageously taken. this is why i voted in favour of the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia. the idea is to offer a temporary, zero-duty tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for exports of olive oil from tunisia to the eu, in the form of an autonomous trade measure, and to do this without increasing the overall volume of imports. i expect that this concrete action will provide some relief to the tunisian people. the olive oil sector indirectly employs more than a million people, accounting for one-fifth of jobs in the country’s agricultural industry, and is tunisia’s main agricultural export.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on veterinary medicines, which improves the existing legislation and creates conditions for better veterinary care. i consider it an important element in the fight against antibacterial resistance, which is a growing concern for farmers and breeders. i consider it correct that the prescription of a veterinary medicinal product is subject to the establishment of a veterinary diagnosis on the basis of a clinical examination of the animal and that continuous medical surveillance is not sufficient.
in writing. ‒ healthy animals are an essential prerequisite for europe’s agriculture, public health and environment. however, veterinary products have been difficult to access in small markets, their use plagued by heavy and sometimes unnecessary administration and there has been worrying resistance to antibiotics. in addition, medicine for animals and humans has been put into the same category, which is very confusing. i believe that the commission’s proposal is an important step forward to remedy to this, which is why i voted in favour of it. it provides a good balance between consumer needs by improving access to medicinal products, simplifying administration while simultaneously providing incentives for the veterinary industry to encourage innovation, which is needed in this small and quite fragmented market. it will also work on ensuring a functioning internal market. more importantly, it will tackle the growing antibiotic resistance by limiting the use of antibiotics, but also by allowing the use of homeopathic alternatives, and by defining who is entitled to prescribe veterinary medicine.
in writing. i supported the report amending the draft regulation on veterinary medicinal products (vmp) at first reading. the proposed regulation replaces the existing union regulation on veterinary medicinal products, which is contained in directive 2001/82/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004, and responds to criticism of the existing regulation by the pharmaceutical industry, farmers and veterinarians. union regulation of this issue is necessary to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, as well as for the functioning of the internal market. the proposed regulation contains a new regulation on the marketing authorisation of medicinal products, aiming to reduce the administrative burden associated with the authorisation. the regulation also addresses a key and topical issue, namely the effort to limit the rise of antimicrobial resistance. the control of antibiotic use in veterinary medicine is particularly important, as overuse of antibiotics also negatively affects their effectiveness in treating humans. the new regulation promotes research into new products, for example by extending the term of protection of technical documentation, which makes the investment in the development of vlp more profitable. the regulation also includes modifications to the rules for the production and distribution of vlps, the rules for regulatory authorities and the revision of the so-called pharmacovigilance , i.e. post-registration monitoring of vlps , which is intended to serve, for example, as a single database for all registered vlps in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending the regulation on the european medicine agency (ema), to make sure that it is capable of effectively implementing new regulations and ensuring that all medicines available on the eu market are safe, effective and of high quality. while the authorisation for veterinary medicinal products is now part of a new regulation, this amendment clarifies that the ema is still responsible for the central authorisation procedure for human and the veterinary products, that it is line with the new financial regulations, and that it has a role to play in increasing access to medicine. increasing cooperation and exchange of scientific information with the agency for health technology assessment bodies will be useful for the latter. i particularly agree with the idea that ema should be also able to provide member states with a comparative evaluation of medicinal products for humans, which can then be taken into consideration on a voluntary basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that a strong european role in the data-driven economy will be vital to our economic growth in the future. while we must always support the right to privacy by default, there are real opportunities for europe if we are active in the development of big data, cloud computing, connected vehicles, and the internet of things. a data-driven economy can make our cities cleaner, help bring smart solutions to real problems and create new jobs. in short, a connected world will be an important part of making life better and easier for our citizens and i hope we will not let this chance slip by.
in writing. - i voted against it. the proposal is a hodgepodge of regulatory and subsidy ideas, for example encouraging member states to support broadband infrastructure through existing programmes such as the connecting europe facility, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the cohesion fund. the infrastructure for high-speed internet has long been built by private companies, and there is no eu or government intervention in place. investment is best supported by a healthy competitive environment free of regulation and subsidies.
in writing. - in the context of this resolution, i find it alarming that only 1.7% of enterprises are making full use of advanced digital technologies, despite the benefits that digital tools can bring to all economic sectors. it is therefore urgent that the commission and the member states put in place a digital strategy targeting business operators. the european digital economy hubs should also be established to address the use of big data and other data technologies by entrepreneurs, smes and innovative companies, and to include researchers and the wider economy. the establishment of innovation spaces and clusters should be promoted to help develop skills and create competitive advantage in the area of intellectual capital and to better understand the prospects and limitations of big data technology.
in writing. i supported the report on the data-driven economy, as data, as an integral part of our lives, can bring new opportunities for growth and employment. i also supported the report because of the benefits of data for consumers, government, medicine and crime prevention. i am aware that the use of data carries significant risks, and therefore the building of a digital single market cannot be done without adequate data protection. this should be ensured by a uniform legal framework. a data-driven economy can lead to greater prosperity, economic growth, research and innovation. but it is equally important for the european commission and the member states to remember that it is the promotion of research and innovation that is essential to building a data-driven economy. i therefore voted in favour of using european and national funding to strengthen european research and innovation in this area.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the committee on regional development, i am in favour of increasing employment by all possible means. in the context of the current work programme of the european commission, the digital single market is a key objective that can make the future thriving data-driven economy an opportunity for jobs and growth, inter alia by enabling the emergence of new business models and services. on our common journey towards a thriving economy, the data-driven economy represents a future that requires, in addition to connectivity, common standards, high-speed networks and equally powerful computing infrastructures. i am in favour of the european union's member states making more use of big data and being financially supported by the union, as well as the council supporting the creation of uniform electronic identification rules. i think that decisions that are based on big data can contribute to productivity and competitiveness, which ultimately contribute to gdp growth in the european union member states.
in writing. the resolution on the road to a thriving data-driven economy is, in my view, a balanced contribution to the issue of big data, which has the potential to increase economic productivity and improve consumer and public services. already, big data is enabling consumers to benefit from certain services that increase convenience, efficiency and savings, for example in transport. i think it is important that the resolution recognises the potential opportunities for the development of a data-driven economy, but also points out that the development of these opportunities must be conditional on preserving trust and confidence and on the effective enforcement of consumer rights. that's why i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ big data represents an immense opportunity to both our businesses and our societies, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution. by making use of the economy of scale, big data will be able to significantly improve productivity and encourage new and innovative business models and services. big data and the economy of scale will be particularly beneficial for smes, who will be more apt to compete with big businesses. i am also hopeful that this will create a significant number of new jobs in europe in the coming years, as the use of big data requires many new advanced skills. in that sense, raising awareness and providing widespread training to deal with big data and new technologies is crucial. moreover, big data can also be a big step for improving the way we live (smart cities), the quality of our science and medicine (mhealth), and for preventing disasters and fighting crime more effectively. moreover, it will bring new opportunities for consumers in terms of convenience, efficiency and savings, and can allow government administrations to work more efficiently and closer to citizens through e-government.
in writing. i supported this resolution because it is the future thriving data-driven economy that can be an opportunity for economic growth and higher employment in the union as well as for increasing its external competitiveness. i also agree that in this area, all the principles laid down by the european union's data protection legislation, such as fairness and lawfulness, purpose limitation, legal basis for processing, must be respected when processing personal data. i also support the initiative mentioned in the resolution concerning the call to the commission and the member states to set up european digital economy centres to deal with the use of big data by entrepreneurs and smes. the development of a data-driven economy also needs to be accompanied by better ict education, not only in schools but also in lifelong learning.
in writing. - i got held up. i am sorry for the human rights violations in eritrea, but the ep resolution will not change that. it is not the role of parliament to tolerate the injustices of the whole globe.
in writing. - in view of the alarming state of human rights violations in eritrea, i have decided to support the report on the situation in that country. the violation of the fundamental rights of the population, their humiliation and punishment, result in migration flows not only to neighbouring countries, but also to the european union. it is not possible for citizens to be imprisoned for criticizing government officials, for practicing journalism, for practicing an unofficial religion, or for being homosexual. i am very sorry that eritrea is not living up to its promise of democracy. i voted to end a dictatorial government that does not punish but even encourages the commission of crimes against humanity, and i called on the european commission to ensure that european development aid funds are not used to serve local governments. it is of primary importance that funds and other development assistance be raised by the eritrean people themselves. i believe that companies investing in eritrea should also behave in a similarly correct manner. their business activities and interests should certainly not lead to a further deterioration of this unsatisfactory situation.
in writing. ‒ the situation in eritrea is deplorable, and the country has one of the worst human rights records in the world. led by the same president since 1993, it is a regime that systemically violates human rights with arbitrary arrests and tortures, uses the mandatory military service to forcibly enslave the population for labour, in a country where freedom of expression is violated, freedom of religion is repressed and the state of emergency is permanent. i voted in favour and co—signed this resolution, to highlight the fact that we need to ensure that the eur 200 million the european union plans to allocate to eritrea over coming years will not flow into the pockets of this regime, but will rather help to reduce poverty and promote socio—economic development for all eritreans. this aid should be conditional on putting an end to human rights violations and re-orientating the country’s energy policy to make energy accessible for everyone.
‒ macedonia is one of the few republics that did not want yugoslavia to disintegrate. it is a poor balkan country that has been hit by mass immigration in recent decades, mainly of the albanian population. we therefore logically face the same problems as in albania or the illegally seized province of serbia, kosovo and metohija. high unemployment and the lack of education of a part of the population, together with the problem of national differences, are complemented by a classic oriental atmosphere of corruption and poorly developed infrastructure. the country has very good conditions for the development of agriculture, but very little developed industry. in the context of the refugee crisis, the attempt to put macedonia on the spot is a dog's head. this is despite the fact that the conditions for participation in the schengen area do not apply to macedonia, but to greece, hungary, slovenia and austria. it is these states that should identify arrivals at their borders and decide at the hotspots who is or is not eligible for asylum, and at the same time agree whether the country to which these migrants are going will accept them. some of the measures adopted so far under eu pressure, such as the merger of municipalities, are completely meaningless, while in other proposals it is necessary to provide the funds (environment) for their implementation. macedonia deserves our help, but also increased attention to the actual application of the newly adopted laws.
in writing. - i voted against it. the eu is interfering in macedonia's internal affairs. he also says macedonia wants to join the eu and that it is the path to prosperity for macedonia. reminds macedonia of its dependence on grants believes that the eu must facilitate grant award procedures and increase funding for research and innovation and, ironically, invites the macedonian youth and sport agency to recognise the role and support of the national youth council and to establish a permanent mechanism of cooperation with this body; welcomes the establishment of a national youth strategy for the period 2016-2025 and stresses the need to allocate adequate resources for its implementation. the european union has nothing to do with the cooperation of the macedonian youth agency with the national youth council.
in writing. i supported the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i did so because i support this country's membership in the european union. while macedonia is currently more affected by the migration problem than some member states, it is important that it does not stop its efforts to implement the necessary reforms. it is not possible for a state with significant shortcomings in the field of the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the media or the fight against corruption to become a full member of the 28-nation european grouping. i do not support the mere bilateral pressures between member states which are preventing macedonia from joining. by that i mean the unresolved question of the official name of macedonia. i'm advocating a constructive approach to finding solutions. i firmly believe that all relevant political parties will be able to find a way to create the optimal environment for the organisation of the elections and that they will respect the provisions of the political agreement concluded last july with the mediated assistance of the european union. i support macedonia's progress towards membership of the european union, but i must emphasise that this support also requires considerable effort on the part of the macedonian representatives themselves.
in writing. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) has been a candidate country for eu membership for ten years. during this time, it has become one of the most developed candidates and has achieved a high level of alignment with eu legislation and rules. but now fyrom finds itself at a crossroads. following last year's government wiretapping scandal, fyrom is in a deep political crisis and preparing for early parliamentary elections. at the same time, there is a high degree of political control over the media and the judiciary. more reforms are also needed in the areas of electoral law and democracy. the prospect of eu membership remains one of the main incentives for continuing the reforms that have been relatively successful so far. it is therefore crucial that we support the fyrom in its ongoing reform process, especially in respect of the rule of law and the fight against corruption. i therefore welcome the parliament's decision to include the fyrom in the strategies for regional cooperation and strengthening neighbourly relations, which is also a crucial condition for resolving the dispute with greece and moving closer to the eu. in the context of the deteriorating security situation in europe, i support the efforts of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to join nato.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the political parties of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) to keep all their commitments as soon as possible that are linked to the political agreement of 2 june and 15 july 2015. indeed, i believe that an agreement between all the parties in fyrom is essential in order to implement all the elements of this agreement, which would put the country back on the euro-atlantic path. fyrom’s political parties must start a constructive political dialogue and to continue their efforts to restore public trust in institutions, so as to preserve political stability and accelerate the reform programme. the urgent priority reforms include freedom of the media and of assembly, the public administration, the rule of law and fundamental rights, the judiciary, and the fight against corruption. finally, i believe that the recommendation to open accession negotiations should depend on the comprehensive implementation of the political agreement and significant progress in implementing the priority reforms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the offer of european union membership can be a significant driver of the reforms needed for macedonia to become a full member of the eu. however, i believe it is essential that macedonia does a lot to improve the functioning of public administration, and above all that there is a real fight against corruption, including at the highest levels. further progress is also needed in the area of freedom of expression and media. the coexistence of ethnic groups within the state is still very fragile. in my view, the question of minorities living together needs to be approached in a very sensitive but at the same time comprehensive way.
‒ montenegro, since its separation from serbia, achieved by a very curious amendment to the electoral law, has long been a state that does not address some of the issues that the eu is closely monitoring in other states. nor is the report concerned with them. these are mainly citizens of montenegro who have long-term permanent residence outside the territory of the republic on the one hand and on the other hand, which is highlighted in the report as a positive step, the government of the republic grants broad civil rights and freedoms to those who do not have citizenship of the republic. in this situation, the national situation is being narrowed and the parliamentary activities of part of the opposition are being boycotted. the poor balkan country cannot afford a major expansion of social benefits, which is linked to the reform of the welfare and childcare system. it is necessary for the eu to support the improvement of the situation in this area. a big problem in montenegro is the large community of illegal immigrants. the report rightly states that the police need to further intensify checks in order to prevent the recruitment of citizens and non-citizens of montenegro into jihadist organisations. it is naive to think that this report will significantly promote the economic development of the republic. the 100% alignment of montenegro's foreign policy with the eu, as assessed in paragraph 33, is clearly detrimental to the further economic development of the country. this is fully in line with the russian federation's cooperation. i still support the report.
in writing. - i voted against it. it's about interfering in national affairs, like enforcing the minority law. parliament called on the montenegrin authorities to promote better representation of ethnic minorities in public sector employment and called on them to adopt a new minorities law in line with european standards and after consulting all stakeholders.
in writing. i supported the 2015 report on montenegro as i welcome the progress made in the european union's accession negotiations with that country. montenegro has demonstrated that it is serious about its commitment to reform in several areas. although the country has shown very substantial progress, it should not slow down in its reform efforts. i am thinking in particular of strengthening parliamentary scrutiny, which is one of the key factors not only in the negotiating procedure. it is also important that the country works towards depoliticising public administration, addressing issues related to impunity for war crimes, fighting organised crime and corruption, which should be eradicated at all levels. i am very pleased that there has been an improvement in the involvement of organised civil society in policy-making and that there have been no further attacks on journalists. journalism as a professional activity is an integral part of democracy. candidate countries, as well as member states, should therefore ensure that it is not politicised and that there are no interferences that would jeopardise its proper functioning, even by media owners.
in writing. i supported the 2015 report on the evaluation of political events in montenegro because i consider its content to be factual and objective. despite progress in accession negotiations, montenegro still has shortcomings in certain areas. in a country where part of the opposition boycotts parliamentary activity, constructive cooperation within parliament must be restored. i appreciate the proactive participation of montenegro in regional and international cooperation and i support the adoption of the law on international restrictive measures, in particular in the context of the illegal annexation of crimea and the events in eastern ukraine. i was pleased to support the amendment by my group (epp) which supports nato's decision to invite montenegro to join the alliance and calls for a swift and effective progress in accession negotiations. it is good that this text has been incorporated into the resolution. as the shadow rapporteur of the cooperation agreement between montenegro and eurojust (the organisation dealing with judicial cooperation between european states), i also welcome the inclusion of point 6 on strengthening the legislative framework to increase the independence of the judiciary. the state has a big problem with corruption in this regard. the agreement will help in the fight against cross-border and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which express serious concerned about the internal political divisions in montenegro and the boycott of parliamentary activities by an opposition party. it is now important that all parties re-engage in sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation within the montenegrin parliament. moreover, despite positive legislative progress, corruption continues to pose a serious problem in the country. in this resolution we invite the government to tackle corruption by allocating sufficient human and budgetary resources to it and by continuing to further strengthen the legislative and institutional framework.
in writing. ‒ montenegro is the most advanced candidate country in terms of the negotiating process. it is clear that the country has already implemented a number of reforms, which is why i decided to support this positive report. despite the progress made in reforms, i consider it important that montenegro continues to work on improving public administration, especially in the fight against corruption, in strengthening the legislative framework to further increase the independence of the judiciary and in other contentious areas. the intensification of police control activities to prevent possible terrorist attacks and recruitment into terrorist organisations was perceived as very positive. the adopted counter-terrorism strategy for 2016-2018 is also key. i also agree with the call for strengthening human rights institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the state of the banking union. europe has made significant steps towards creating a banking union but the work is far from over. to fully complete the job, we first need to restore trust in our financial system. it is vital to restore trust between savers and their banks but also between member states themselves. this text also makes it clear that the european commission and the european supervisory authorities conduct an in-depth assessment of the effect of increasing capital requirements in current and future legislation on credit supply, especially to small and medium-sized companies, which are the driving force of our real economy.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the existence of a banking union in the eu, on the contrary, i want the euro to be voluntary. the proposal also confirms the regulatory error that has led to government and european bonds being rated as zero-risk assets in banking regulation, making it easier for governments to borrow and exposing banks to moral hazard.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which for the first time maps and assesses the situation in the banking union. the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism are a step towards a common market for banking services, but must be followed by others, such as the provision of a high level of protection for deposits through the creation of a european deposit insurance scheme (edis) or structural reform of banking, which should aim to reduce systemic risk and tackle the problem of financial institutions that are too big to fail. the commission should also carry out, together with the esas, a comprehensive assessment of the capital requirements contained in current and future legislation, in particular with a view to analysing their implications for the financing conditions of smes and the real economy more generally.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis that hit europe in 2008 led not only to a catastrophic loss of jobs, but also to a major loss of confidence in the market and our national banking institutions. in response, we created the banking union, which has been indispensable in restoring stability and confidence in euro area banks, strengthening our monetary union, and above all leading to market confidence, boosting jobs and investment. while, eight years later, our recovery remains modest and the risks high, the banking union remains the best instrument to put the european economy on the right path again. this is why i voted in favour of the banking union’s 2015 report. i particularly welcome the creation of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), which aims to ensure a uniform and homogeneous supervision of european banks, creating a level playing field in the banking market, and contributing to its safety and soundness, while endorsing the idea that the administrative burdens caused by this instrument must be kept to a minimum.
few people support the glyphosate debate as much as i do. i've held a conference in parliament on this, but the matter has been discussed extensively enough in committees, on the web stream and other meetings. we'll never learn anything new from each other, nor the public from us. the deadline for amendments is one hour and 40 minutes. a night debate where nothing new is heard is completely dysfunctional.
i would like to thank my colleagues on the juri committee for their contribution to this report and i would like to thank mr karim for the acceptable compromise. for me personally, the question of subsidiarity and proportionality is one of the fundamental questions of the legislative process in the eu. it is a skilled way of involving national parliaments in this process, a useful tool at a time when the relationship between the member states and the union is very sensitive. at the same time, however, the application of this principle is not the only way in which national parliaments influence the union's legislative process. it should be recalled that the council of ministers is composed of ministers who are also responsible to their national parliaments. however, this principle is understood by our citizens and they ask us to implement it. we must recognize that this principle is not only a kind of screwdriver, but also a prerequisite for the successful implementation of the joint european initiatives for which we are responsible, and not just a tool to block them. as i have said, i believe that this report represents a good compromise for our future work on specific proposals.
the sad thing about this is that this parliament has to object to the european commission's implementing measures in the first place. that's just awful. perhaps we should review the whole process of so-called comitology, the incomprehensible decision-making process that alienates the european union from its citizens. glyphosate manufacturers once claimed that no residues remain after its use. it was a lie. and that residue is all over our environment, our food, and ourselves. in the united states, the food and drug administration will begin testing glyphosate in food this year. our resolution calls on the european commission to follow suit in the interest of the safety of european citizens. we are also convinced that glyphosate is not dangerous to human health. the european food safety authority bases its recommendations on a number of so-called key but classified studies funded by whom? the industry. but the international agency for research on cancer and dozens and dozens of independent scientists are providing more and more evidence that glyphosate can cause a whole range of health conditions and is probably an endocrine disruptor. the european union wants to fight antibiotic resistance, glyphosate has been patented as an antibiotic. it is of interest only to this house. we are aware of the sad fact that european agriculture is failing to recover from its dependence on glyphosate.
i voted for this point to be discussed because i believe that the citizens should know what we are voting on here. the assessment and authorisation of chemicals used in agriculture which affect human health is a major priority, and i believe it is also a major priority for the european commission, which is the first to decide on this, and it is also a major priority for the member states. i therefore requested the opinion of the czech ministry of agriculture and environment, which was consulted, participated in the decision-making process and recommended that we as members of parliament support the opinion of the european commission. i shall also vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the european people's party, which of course have security as their priority and which propose, for example, to reduce the period allowed to seven years.
i think we can all agree that erasmus+ is a fundamental tool for achieving our common goals, namely reducing unemployment, reducing poverty, improving the chances for all children to have a quality education. this report, which is in fact the first to draw on this mandate, is therefore constructively critical, i.e. it points out that we must monitor the effectiveness of the programmes and priorities proposed. the commissioner, whom i respect very much, surely knows that the key to a quality education is the teacher and the motivation of the student. therefore, these vocational training programmes need to be linked to practical, entrepreneurial and language skills and administrative simplification is needed. thank him for taking the time to do it.
i would like to deal with the part that the rapporteur mentioned. we have to anticipate, we have to be somewhat predictive, and at the same time apply the procedures that we advocate to the citizens. i agree with what the honourable member said, but i also call for more communication with the member states. there is no doubt that the global financial market and the role of the european union in international financial institutions is a very serious issue. but just as important is the way in which the european union and its institutions communicate their policies to the member states and their citizens. here i think we have a really significant reserve. the czech republic has very good financial markets and regulations in these financial markets. we paid a very high price for that in the form of having to bail out banks in the '90s. i would very much like the european union to learn from this follow-up and communication with citizens, and perhaps from us.
i want to support, of course, all initiatives that lead to what is the subject of today's debate in this report, namely the achievement of sustainable development of fisheries and, of course, of biological diversity within the seas and marine environment. on the other hand, we must also acknowledge that the european union is also facing impacts that are reflected in the loss of biodiversity. i have chosen, i have taken the liberty of choosing, a few that are really relevant to our european space. this is the growth of human population and urbanization in coastal areas. excessive nitrogen and phosphorus input, which may be the cause of eutrophication; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. we still have a number of shortcomings here in our own field and i welcome this activity which raises these questions.
i would just like to say, in the margins of my speech, that the czech republic can also draw on the fisheries fund during this programming period, for the first time. however, i would like to point out that the previous parliament also dealt with this crucial issue, namely fisheries and fisheries agreements, and adopted its report in 2012, in which it stated in paragraph 11 that it recalls that the main objective of external fisheries policy must be to maintain the existing fisheries agreements and to seek new opportunities for fishing in third countries. the parliament recognises that if the eu fleet ceases its activities in the fishing grounds of a third country, the fishing rights concerned are normally allocated to other fleets, which apply much lower conservation, management and sustainability standards than those set and protected by the eu. i think that's a question we really should be answering. to what extent are these hunting grounds being occupied by others as we clear our positions?
let me tell you what the czech republic thinks about the european union's deal with turkey. the czech parliament adopted the following resolution: 1) the house of representatives strongly rejects the introduction of a mandatory redistribution mechanism for fugitives; the house of representatives rejects the agreement of the eu's heads of government on the abolition of visas for turkish citizens. but does anyone in brussels care what a democratically elected parliament thinks? i'm afraid not the european council and the commission deliberately concluded an agreement with turkey which has no treaty substance, so that it could not be negotiated by this or any other parliament in a member state. shame on the european council for bypassing democratic institutions and concluding an agreement with turkey that no parliament has even discussed. this is a democratic deficit in practice, this is why european institutions are losing the trust of citizens.
almost exactly one year ago, on march 17th, the ministers of education met in paris and adopted a declaration to promote citizenship and the common values of freedom, tolerance and non-discrimination in the educational process in response to the attacks on charlie hebdo. a year later, we can look back and say that the situation has not improved and that terrorist attacks are still imminent. of course, we do not expect all measures to produce concrete and rapid results within a year, but we must say that the integration approach as it has been adopted in some countries has not produced sufficient results. so i agree that we need to support teachers first. support them in their preparation for how to teach pupils and lead them to tolerance, but also to responsibility, to solidarity, but above all to a perception of human and european values.
terrorism knows no borders and threatens our freedom, threatens people's trust in the public authorities to provide them with real security. i think we should have the legal tools to resolutely deal with the perpetrators in terms of the personal harm that should be done to them as a result of committing a terrorist act. that is why i think it is important to ensure that in our legal system, the courts can deprive citizenship or restrict civil rights of those persons, eu citizens, who have committed or participated in a terrorist act, provided, of course, that they have been convicted of this by an independent and impartial court in a competent manner. in my view, it is also inadmissible for eu citizens who commit terrorist acts to benefit from that citizenship, but their relationship as citizens of another member state of the european union must be taken into account.
first, let me do one thing, and that is thank both reporters for their honest approach to the whole subject. if you take this material that they have produced, and that we're discussing here today, you can say that it covers all aspects of migration, and in my opinion it's a great foundation for the migration debate. however, we must not forget that the situation has changed dramatically since the inception of this initiative and is changing every day. while i agree with the report in many respects, i believe that it is unrealistic and long overdue. it shows that the redistribution model it promotes is practically impossible. i have been warning for a long time, along with several colleagues, that refugees in many countries do not want to stay. a case in the czech republic is just one example. so why invent meaningless quotas? as i said, we need to look at a comprehensive solution, and i agree with 70% of the text of this report, but i disagree with one of the key issues that this debate boils down to, and that is the redistribution of refugees.
i very much appreciate the report on the mediterranean and the comprehensive approach to the migration crisis, which very truthfully describes the situation and describes it through the eyes of those who live in these countries. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. they do a great job of helping refugees, but i would like them to listen to those who have different experiences. those who call for solidarity to go hand in hand with security. it's not against refugees. we want security measures for all europeans and also for refugees, so that europe is safe for both europeans and refugees. we therefore call for the immediate introduction of external border protection to make europe safer.
‒ trade relations with the african, caribbean and pacific countries are undoubtedly important for the eu, especially the issue of duty-free access to the european market for certain products. in order to ensure smooth and transparent trade between the acp countries and the eu, the documents governing the import of products, which have been amended several times, need to be adapted and codified in a way that is clear, legible and understandable to all actors. i was therefore happy to support the report of the committee on international trade supporting the commission's intention to simplify this legislation. transparent and understandable legislation is a long-term objective in our alde group and in parliament in general.
in writing. - i got held up. this is a codification of previous eu regulations, so that voting does not change the very essence of eu legislation. at the same time, however, i would like to stress that i do not agree with the regulation no 1528/2007 that is the subject of the amendment, namely that the eu is pushing poor african, pacific and caribbean countries into subsidy programmes of the european type in exchange for free trade.
in writing. ‒ i agree to the adoption of this proposal for the codification and recasting of the council regulation governing the importation of products originating in certain acp countries. this regulation provides for duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market. it is therefore necessary to adapt it in order to increase its transparency and clarity. as this temporary instrument has been amended many times, i welcome the effort to revise it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as i believe that it will simplify, clarify and make more transparent the arrangements for imports of products originating in certain states, which are part of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states. in fact, this regulation allows acp states that are not among the least developed countries (ldc) to benefit from quota-free, duty-free access to the eu market. this is a temporary instrument before the economic partnership agreements (epas) compatible with the world trade organisation (wto) come into place in october 2016. this initiative supports regional integration and promotes the gradual integration of the acp economies into the rules-based world trading system, fostering their sustainable development and contributing to the effort to eradicate poverty and to enhance living conditions in the acp countries.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the principle that the eu should pay €17.8 million per year to greenland for fishing rights in its waters between 2016 and 2020. i do not agree in general with the principle that the eu buys the governments of poor countries at the expense of their economic development.
in writing. ‒ the greenland agreement is the third most important agreement for the eu in terms of economic value. i therefore very much welcome the adoption of the proposal to extend the protocol to this agreement, which has so far brought considerable benefits to the eu. it has not only significantly extended fishing rights for eu citizens, but also created new full-time jobs. i am convinced that this protocol has brought and will bring further benefits to both parties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of renewing the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu, denmark and greenland, which expired at the end of 2015, for five years. its aim is to strengthen cooperation between the eu and greenland, and to promote a partnership in which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the greenlandic fishing zone. the protocol grants fishing opportunities to eu vessels in the fishing zone of greenland by setting a fishing level each year limited to the available surplus, fully in line with conservation and management measures. this is an economically beneficial agreement for both the eu and greenland, as virtually all of greenland’s exports of fish products are destined for the eu, with denmark accounting for more than 90% of eu imports.
in writing. - i got held up. the eu-macao agreement merely summarises the agreements of individual member states with macao on air safety and taxation. i would point out, however, that i do not agree with the principle that the eu should negotiate these agreements for the individual member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to conclude the agreement on certain aspects of air services between the eu and macao. the negotiations aimed at replacing the existing 15 bilateral air agreements from eu member states with macao. the scope of the agreement covers the right of establishment of all eu carriers, safety rules and taxation of aviation fuel. this agreement will eventually allow compliance with the eu competition law by preventing any discrimination against eu air carriers. in addition, the asian air market is growing and the perspective for the eu airlines to benefit from it must to be encouraged if we want to maintain our leading position in the air sector. while the european commission is seeking mandates to negotiate new comprehensive air agreements on behalf of the eu, i find it of utmost importance to finalise the pending negotiations to unblock the development of eu airlines.
in writing. ‒ minimum rates in the field of vat are justified by the fact that vat at origin, rather than destination, is still applied to cross-border shopping and distance sales below a certain threshold. hence, a minimum standard rate applied in all member states – as is currently the case – provides a useful safeguard to the proper functioning of the internal market. until we adopt the new definitive vat regime - which proposes that the origin principle be abandoned, it makes sense to prolong the minimum vat standard rate for two more years. by then, negotiators will hopefully have adopted a new policy on vat rates. indeed, i believe this question has to be extensively discussed in the framework of the negotiations on the com proposal for a simple, efficient and fraud-proof definitive system of value added tax tailored to the single market.
- i voted against. i do not agree with the proposal that the eu should start dictating again to the member states the minimum rate of vat, and i certainly do not agree with the proposal that this should apply retroactively from january 2016. i do not agree with the commission's proposal to pay the minimum rate by the end of 2017, nor with the amendment proposal to pay it by the end of 2018. the commission proposes a regulation of vat rates contrary to its previous reply to my question on the regulation of vat. if the proposal is passed, the czech republic will not be able to introduce a uniform vat rate of 14%, for example.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of extending the minimum standard rate of vat at 15% for three more years, as a provisional measure meanwhile the vat system is being reformed in 2016. harmonisation in the area of taxes is necessary to ensure the establishment and functioning of the internal market and to avoid distortion of competition. i am looking forward to the commission’s publication in 2016 of an action plan for a simple, efficient and fraud-proof definitive system of value added tax tailored to the single market, setting out the directions for future work. its aim will be to set out the main characteristics of the definitive vat regime for trade inside the eu. this will provide investors and businesses with much needed legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement as i think it is extremely important we allow to exchange data between the eu and its relevant partners when it comes any criminal activity, especially when it relates to cross-border, organised criminal acts. it starts with money laundering and could finish with a serious terrorist threat, therefore we need all instruments available to counter it.
in writing. - i voted against it. europol is an agency that doesn't help security, it's a waste of taxpayers' money. the agreement with brazil does not concern the exchange of personal data, but all kinds of training and exchange of analyses that do not help the security in europe or in brazil. member states may themselves agree to exchange police information with brazil if they so wish.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to approve the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil, as it has a good potential to lead to a strengthened eu role in the fight against organised crime. at the same time, the agreement does not threaten the protection of personal data, since it excludes the exchange of such data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of this strategic cooperation agreement with brazil, since it will contribute to aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement cooperation. according to europol, brazil is increasingly relevant in the fight against organised crime, such as facilitated illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug related crimes and credit card fraud, as well as other cybercrime related activities. furthermore, the 2016 olympic games are expected, as is the case with any other major sports event, to lead to increased criminal activities. lastly, brazil is also of particular interest in the area of counter-terrorism and asset recovery.
in writing. ‒ i supported the strategic agreement between brazil and europol, as there is an objective need to establish cooperation between the two actors. brazil has become a major state in the fight against organized crime, illegal immigration, human trafficking, cybercrime and so on. at the same time, brazil is also of particular interest in the fight against terrorism and the search for criminal assets. i also consider that the fact that the olympic games will be held in brazil in 2016, which is expected to have an increased crime rate, similar to other major sporting events, and therefore requires wider cooperation, is an important argument for the adoption of this agreement. personally, i think it's important to mention that this agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, which dispels concerns about the misuse of this sensitive information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiving of the parliamentary immunity of the member of the european parliament hermann winkler, to be able to launch a preliminary investigation concerning a serious traffic accident. this is not with the intention of damaging mr winkler’s political activity nor has it anything to do with his political opinions.
i supported this report. in my opinion, it is very important that the biodiversity of the seas, the marine environment, be preserved. i would point out that it is coastal settlement that makes it very difficult to maintain this biodiversity, and that the eu should also play its part in this respect. on the other hand, i would also like to say that if a certain fishing area is abandoned, which the eu and its member state are currently fishing for, it is then taken over by a completely different state, which does not take these environmental aspects into account at all. in my view, the eu should push the international community to make the protection of biodiversity a genuine and integral part of the protection of the marine environment.
‒ the seas and oceans cover most of the earth's surface and play an indispensable role in many of our planet's systems. i therefore consider it very important to work towards the conservation of biodiversity, the maintenance of healthy marine habitats and fish stocks. taking into account the fact that up to 64% of marine areas are governed by international law, comprehensive global action is needed. i therefore warmly welcome the proposal of the un working group to create a legally binding international instrument, within the framework of the united nations convention on the law of the sea, aimed at the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction. i believe that this new agreement is necessary in view of the obsolescence of the existing legal framework, which does not correspond to the dynamics of change, for example, with the number of activities developed in the marine environment. these changes have a major impact on the conservation of marine ecosystems and on the sustainable use of oceans and seas and their resources. given the important role the eu plays in the sustainable management of living marine resources, greater involvement in international cooperation is necessary. at the same time, this new agreement should ensure a level playing field for all parties involved.
in writing. ‒ the sea is home to a large part of the world’s biodiversity, and its preservation is a common concern for all humankind. however, as 64% of the sea is in areas beyond the national jurisdiction of states, there is no legal framework in place to establish marine protected areas. in 2015, the un working group studying that topic recommended the development of an international, legally binding instrument under the un convention on the law of the sea (unclos) to manage pollution and the increasing dangers to marine biodiversity. i voted in favour of this resolution, as i agree that the eu should continue to play a leading role in the development of this new instrument. fishing should also be included, as it is one of the most important activities there. it should also make sure that all actors involved are accountable to ensure real efficiency. capacity-building and sharing of information should be prioritised.
in writing. on 12 april 2016, at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, we voted on the proposal for a regulation on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products. the aim of this proposal was to bring together all the directives concerning zootechnical legislation on different animal species into a single legal instrument. unfortunately, the preparation of the document from the beginning has been confronted with the fact that there are different habits within different species of farm animals, which are a big complication in finding uniform rules acceptable for all species. however, the most fundamental problems have been removed in the process of ongoing negotiations between the european parliament, the council and the commission. in the end, despite a number of criticisms, the proposal was also acceptable to the czech republic, which is why i was able to support it.
in writing. - i voted against it. the proposal regulates the breeding and trade of farm animals. the breeds of cattle and other animals vary from country to country, and there is no reason to harmonize breeding practices. the proposal confers on the commission unnecessarily large powers, for example, in respect of the recognition of individual breeding operations and breed societies.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to adopt the proposal for a regulation on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products in order to promote free trade in breeding animals and their genetic material, with a view to the sustainability of breeding programmes and the conservation of genetic resources. this regulation establishes, in a single legal framework, the principles for the recognition and establishment of lists of breed societies, breeders' associations and private undertakings. i believe that this draft regulation, which concerns mainly zootechnical matters, will be a good document, given the long-term consultations between the commission and the standing zootechnical committee on the basis of which this legislation was jointly drawn up.
in writing. i supported the report by the european parliament amending the proposal for a regulation on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for trade in and imports into the eu of breeding animals and their germinal products. this regulation aims to promote a free internal market, simplify import conditions, while maintaining the level and quality of breeding programmes in the eu and protecting european biodiversity. the draft regulation maintains the existing main and well-functioning rules of eu zootechnical legislation. the amendment consists in creating a single legal framework which guarantees the same principles for the recognition of breed societies and societies, the approval of their breeding programmes, furthermore it establishes the same criteria for official controls and clearly defines the relationship between breeders and breed societies. the regulation also harmonises terminology and introduces new definitions of 'breed' and 'breeding programme'. i consider it important that this draft regulation is based on regular consultations with experts and responds to differences in the implementation of the basic directives in the various member states, which are brought to the attention of the member states themselves during the regular meetings of the standing committee on zootechnology with the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this the proposal to put in place zootechnical and genealogical rules for trade in and imports into the eu of their breeding animals and their germinal products. breeding plays a key role in conserving rare breeds and thereby in protecting biodiversity. however, efforts to achieve competitiveness should not lead to the disappearance of breeds with characteristics adapted to specific natural contexts. these rules will enable the preservation and improvement of animal breeding, as well as rules for the conservation and improvement of native or endangered breeds. agreeing on a definition of the concept of ‘breed’ would be useful to clarify the common legal framework. this would also be facilitated through greater cross-border cooperation.
i did not support this report, i abstained and i would like to explain the reasons that led me to do so. unlike last year's vote on one-off measures in favour of hungary, italy and greece, this report describes the system for setting up a mandatory centralised asylum agenda. this is contrary to the programme for which i was a candidate in the ep, top 09 and mayor's office, where we had written that asylum and immigration policy would remain in the national sphere, in other words, it is of course possible for the czech republic to join certain asylum standards, standard procedures, but it must be its free consent, it must be an expression of the position of the czech republic as a member state. i think that in these politically sensitive matters, when there is actually a certain incorporation of the population in the territory of the czech republic or other states, the eu should be more sensitive.
in writing. ‒ although this report contained some very sensible measures to address the refugee crisis in europe, i could not support it, as it mentions two fundamental things that i consider to be completely out of the question in this context. one of them is the recurrent theme of the mandatory relocation of refugees, asylum seekers. i don't think this measure is working. the second point is the proposal for a centrally managed asylum processing centre in brussels. this proposal is as absurd as the first one, it's hard to imagine how it would actually work. i believe that the member states should be responsible for both parts first and foremost, and the european union should concentrate on the solutions it can offer by working together. thank you, sir.
in writing. ‒ i could not support this resolution because i find it to have some fundamental issues with which i do not agree. this is mainly the adoption of a system of permanent redistribution of quotas. the text adopted also emphasises that the preferences of the asylum seeker should be taken into account to the greatest possible extent when relocating in order to prevent secondary migration within the union as much as possible. however, we know from experience that attempts to introduce quotas have been unsuccessful. the one-off quota system, which was adopted last year despite the opposition of some states, is not working. of the 160,000 people from italy and greece, only a few hundred were relocated. moreover, the proposers did not propose a way to distribute refugees in a solidarity way among member states, while at the same time accommodating asylum seekers in their preferences regarding the destination country. i believe that neither the permanent relocation mechanism nor the proposed asylum system are appropriate instruments to bring about a lasting and acceptable solution to the migration crisis. on the contrary, i welcome the efforts to reform the so-called blue card directive, which will allow for the effective use of skilled labour. we should focus on rigorously protecting the external borders of schengen and systematically collecting information on incoming immigrants. there is no point in continually returning to the issue of mandatory quotas if we are not able to guard europe's borders and register incoming immigrants effectively.
in writing. ‒ while there were some aspects of this report which i felt were balanced and correct, i could not support it overall due to its support of a mandatory resettlement scheme for refugees. i remain convinced that such schemes are not the correct way to deal with the migration crisis. the eu should instead have implemented, from the beginning of the crisis, the temporary protection directive. this tool would have granted short term access to the eu for those refugees fleeing the war in syria. should the war come to an end and the situation improve in the region, those granted temporary protection would be able to return home. indeed, this report points out that the temporary protection directive should have been used when europe faced a mass influx of refugees. i support the call in the report for clarification of the term ‘mass influx’ and believe that if a similar crisis were to arise in the future, the temporary protection directive should be the first mechanism used by the eu to help deal with it.
in writing. ‒ as the draft european parliament resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a coherent eu approach to migration again contained support for quotas for the redistribution of refugees, i could not support this document in principle. the report as a whole has had some good points, but i think it is time we stopped repeatedly misrepresenting the quotas and focused on other work. voting on proposals in plenary is often more like a walk in a minefield than a solid job, as support for quotas gets into all sorts of documents. we're still not addressing the root cause of the problem, and we're talking about quotas. again and again and again and again. we are presented with no alternative. i think i speak for the people of the czech republic when i say that we are tired of this and we want a change of approach.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report says that the relocation of migrants is 'a practical example of solidarity within the union', that the proposal for relocation measures is 'a step in the right direction', that the union needs 'a binding and mandatory legislative approach to resettlement' and that 'a permanent resettlement programme at union level with the mandatory participation of member states should be established to allow for the resettlement of a significant number of refugees'. i reject mandatory quotas for the relocation of migrants and i consider european migration policy a huge and fatal failure.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the eu's approach to migration. the resolution, which is not legally binding and does not express an opinion on recent commission proposals in this area, has 134 points and contains many important elements such as the emphasis on external border protection and the fight against smuggling, the requirement to return failed asylum seekers, the need to maintain the schengen system, the change of the union's asylum policy, the need for a list of safe countries and the strengthening of frontex. point 23 talks about the need for a permanent system of resettlement of refugees, i.e. the movement of selected refugees from non-eu countries to the union as currently agreed with turkey. as i do not consider resettlement to be a pivotal point in the context of the whole strategy, i did not support this point in the vote on this point. to reject the report as a whole without presenting a different approach to solving the migration crisis, i did not consider it responsible. i see no better alternative to the migration crisis than a european solution. no country is capable of facing the migration crisis alone, and a national solution could initiate the very dangerous disintegration of the union for us.
in writing. the report on the mediterranean and the need for a holistic approach to migration seeks to bring together all aspects of the migration crisis as it is experienced in the eu, especially as seen by colleagues from malta, italy, greece and other countries with longstanding experience of migration. the report includes a number of positive measures, such as the requirement for better transparency and control of funds spent on addressing migration or the effective deployment of a european border and coast guard. unfortunately, there are also points in this report which i cannot support, because they deny the principle of solidarity based on voluntary access and agreement. this report puts assistance to refugees above the security aspect and the respect of the rules that are laid down, which include the obligation of the member states to protect the external border of the schengen area. that is why i voted to delete the points that speak of the need for a permanent resettlement programme at eu level with the mandatory participation of the member states. i did not vote for the report as a whole because these measures failed to be implemented.
in writing. i supported the non-legislative, i.e. legally non-binding, european parliament report on the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration, in which the ep seeks to define a political approach to the whole range of migration issues. introducing a holistic approach to migration is a complicated task. unfortunately, despite its good intentions, the report as a whole has in many ways fallen victim to the search for compromise between political factions. the parliament's aim of presenting a comprehensive approach to migration was thus not fully achieved. however, the resolution also contains many very important and useful elements for tackling the migration crisis (such as the fight against smuggling, legal pathways for refugees or return policy, among others). as most of the points in the report were voted on en bloc, it was not possible to comment separately on some of the problematic points mentioned above. however, i did not consider it responsible to vote against the entire ep resolution, which represents a summary of parliament's views and approaches to the complex issue of the migration phenomenon. in conclusion, i appreciate that the resolution is framed in the spirit of solidarity in tackling the migration crisis. european solutions are needed now more than ever.
in writing. in today's vote on the motion for a resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a coherent eu approach to migration, i abstained because, while i agree with the need for a coherent approach to the current situation, which means above all a solution at european (eu) level, i do not think that some passages in the resolution that was voted on fulfil this requirement for a comprehensive solution. the reform of the dublin system is certainly one of the essential elements of the future solution, but i believe that it is too early to define the exact parameters of this reform, since it is only one element whose form may be affected by other elements of the solution whose parameters are not precisely known at present and which need to be discussed first. this element of coherence has not, in my view, been sufficiently taken into account in the proposed text.
in writing. ‒ the current refugee crisis has shown that our migration system is not suited to today’s realities anymore. we need a collective european response to resolve the current disastrous humanitarian situation and lay the ground for a better future system. while the resolution goes proposes positive steps, some elements are still contradictory and some measures proposed not acceptable in the current situation. i could not support a relocation scheme for refugees. i remain convinced that such schemes are not the correct way to deal with the migration crisis. this is one of the main reasons why i voted against it. there is no doubt that we need to rethink the dublin regulation and the all migration system on our continent. however, establishing a central collective system for distribution of applicants would be ineffective as long as the eu’s external borders are not secured and migration flows is not effectively managed. a strong european border and coast guard is an essential measure in this respect. it is only once this is done that we can progressively establish a new eu asylum system, based on a fair sharing of responsibility between member states.
‒ i consider the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality to be at the heart of the democratic process and of eu law-making. at a time when the european public is very sensitive to excessive eu intervention, it is certainly good to use this tool to involve national parliaments in the making of legislation and thus also to improve citizens' awareness of decisions in brussels. i therefore welcomed the report calling for the european commission to communicate consistently with parliaments and for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality to be adequately explained in each document. i also think that the commission should react better in the case of yellow cards and explain its position both in the national parliament and before the relevant committee of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report is outdated, covering 2012 and 2013. meanwhile, slovakia and hungary have brought a case against the eu for an inappropriate and non-subsidiary relocation decision, which is not taken into account in this report.
in writing. i supported the report, which recalls the importance of the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality in ensuring the proper functioning of the eu's decision-making processes. the eu still has considerable reserves and room for improvement in this area, according to the annual report of the impact assessment board (iab), which found that more than 30% of the impact assessments reviewed in 2012-2013 contained an unsatisfactory analysis of compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, and that this figure was as high as 50% in 2014.
in writing. ‒ many europeans believe that the eu is both too distant and too involved in national matters. i voted in favour of this report assessing the implementation of these two principles in 2012 and 2013, as i agree that we should work on making impact assessments more effective, and involve our national parliaments in the european legislative process even more. this will bring the citizens closer to the eu, and bring the eu closer to the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the annual report on subsidiarity and proportionality, as these are the fundamental principles which govern the european union as a whole. i also personally support the closer involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process, but i recognise that much more work is needed in this area to strengthen these national parliaments and thus deepen the principle of subsidiarity required. i also see as a positive step forward the first application of the so-called yellow card procedure of national parliaments in 2012, which led to the withdrawal of the commission's proposal on the exercise of the right to collective action under the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services (monti ii regulation). i think it is important that this yellow card procedure for national parliaments should remain easily applicable.
in writing. on 12 april 2016, we voted in strasbourg on the report on the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit). first of all, i very much welcome the efforts of the european union institutions to reduce unnecessary regulations which are not useful or are not used at all and which only burden the entire legal order. this is one of the processes aimed at reducing the overall regulatory burden as well as the secondary administrative burden. reducing the regulatory burden can help develop the eu's internal market. although my colleagues managed to get the juri report to explicitly state that the fight against 'regulatory burdens' should not be directed against workers' rights, i was eventually forced to abstain. at the same time, the report also calls for greater involvement of private actors in the legislative process. this would, of course, lead to even greater interference in the preparation of legislation by an already aggressive lobbying group. which is unacceptable.
in writing. - i voted against it. it's a useless piece of news that does nothing to help us have more effective legislation. on the contrary, the report itself is an example of a completely ineffective piece of legislation. it is not such reports that help us to legislate more effectively, but the more sensible voting of members on individual commission proposals for regulation.
in writing. the report on the programme for the effectiveness and efficiency of legislation, in line with my view, points out that a comprehensive impact assessment should be carried out alongside a cost-benefit analysis, covering in particular the economic, social and environmental consequences and the impact on citizens' fundamental rights and gender equality. the report highlights, among other things, the benefits of independent panels that provide constructive support to governments in the legislative process to reduce administrative costs for businesses and citizens, and cites the czech republic as an example of good practice.
in writing. i supported today's report on the programme for the efficiency and effectiveness of legislation, as a compromise was reached at the level of the committee on legal affairs, which was acceptable to the majority, and which also proved to have the support of the plenary. the compromise also included a section on so-called nutrient profiles, which calls on the european commission to review the scientific basis and usefulness of the regulation governing these nutrient profiles and to propose a follow-up on the basis of the outcome of this review.
in writing. ‒ while regulations are necessary, they are often too complex, opaque and entail too many administrative burdens. this is especially true for smes, which should be able to benefit from various eu legislations and funds, but are often hindered because rules are unclear and administrative costs too high. the european commission’s regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) is a step towards making eu law simpler and its implementation easier, thus contributing to a clear, stable and predictable regulatory framework supporting growth, investment and jobs. this is why i voted in favour of this text, which is in line with the inter-institutional agreement i have worked on. i especially welcome the newly created refit platform, which establishes an ongoing dialogue between all eu institutions, national governments, and representatives of business, social partners and civil society on how to improve eu legislation. this will simplify and clarify legislation for our business and citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe any new eu legislation needs to be based on thorough impact assessments and to be as technology-neutral and future-proof as possible. we also need consultation processes to be open, inclusive and accessible to smes and start-ups in order to make sure there are not unintended consequences of our decision. if we can have better regulation and not over-regulation, i have no doubt growth and jobs will return to europe. i thank the rapporteur for all her work supporting this goal.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report calls on the commission to 'regulate better'. the report calls for the creation of committees to examine how to better regulate. the problem is over-regulation, and it's ridiculous that mps who vote for new and new nonsensical regulations every day are also voting to create new committees to look at how to cut red tape.
in writing. the report on the road to better regulation of the single market mentions effective impact assessment as one of the important aspects. it is an important tool for formulating legislation in such a way as to achieve the objectives of the single market without imposing an undue burden on businesses and individuals. in this respect, it is alarming that approximately 40% of the draft ia analysed by the ia committee between 2010 and 2014 were of insufficient quality and were returned for reconsideration. consideration should be given to supplementing the impact assessment annexed to the proposal with an impact assessment of the substantive changes adopted by the ep and the council.
in writing. ‒ in my view, better regulation of the single market will help the european union to unite. quality legislation should lead to effective and efficient cooperation throughout the policy cycle. and the application of legal and secondary rules needs to be seen as an integral part of how the benefits of the single market are achieved. there is, of course, a risk that if there is not enough commitment from each stakeholder, regulation can be frustrated by an attempt to overregulate. it is therefore necessary to review our legislation carefully over time to see whether the objectives set at the same time are actually being met. i believe that better regulation of the single market will create a competitive regulatory environment that will help to preserve jobs and businesses in europe, which will contribute to long-term growth in the european union and thus to the well-being of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ while the word 'regulation' coming from the european union is not a popular word among the people of the member states, the strategy for how to regulate the single market, as described in this report, is a sensible way to achieve greater uniformity, simplification and the search for a fair and optimal system across the union. this proposal addresses the long-standing deficit of the common market, since there has been a single market for goods but not a single market for services. the expected consequences of adopting this report are welcome, in particular the provision of a competitive regulatory environment for our businesses, the promotion of growth and job creation and, last but not least, the strengthening of confidence in european legislation. the existence of good quality, yet simple, single market legislation will be important for individual businesses and citizens in the eu member states. the importance of the single market itself must be emphasised.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the way forward for better regulation of the single market, as the single market is one of the fundamental pillars of the european union and its existence brings concrete benefits for businesses and individual citizens in all member states. in the further discussions on the possibilities for developing the single market, it is essential to focus on further supporting smes and to continue working on the digital single market, thus unlocking the potential of new technologies to boost economic growth and further integrate the union. we are not talking about regulation where it is not absolutely necessary, but about encouraging innovation and exploiting the potential of the whole european market.
in writing. ‒ more than 20 years after its creation, the single market is still fragmented. it is high time to move towards a fully-fledged single market based on the principle of shared responsibility, which is why i voted in favour of this regulation. a functioning single market will benefit european citizens by stimulating competitiveness, job creation, growth and sme development, while delivering a high level of consumer protection. an important aspect is to ensure that policies are decided at the most appropriate level, be it local, regional, national or european. legislation needs to be effective, efficient, and its impact should be assessed before, after and during the time it becomes law. we should also avoid unnecessary regulation and administrative burden. stakeholders should be consulted on a regular, transparent and open basis when drafting laws. moreover, we need to ensure proper implementation of this legislation, which remains one of our weak spots.
in writing. i decided to support the european parliament's report entitled 'towards better regulation of the single market' because i believe that good legislation, including market regulation, is good for the citizens of the european union, because it boosts competitiveness, leads to the creation of new jobs and promotes economic growth and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. i am sure that these regulations also guarantee a high level of consumer protection. i also consider it crucial that the principle of subsidiarity is the starting point for the formulation of regulatory policy. in this respect, i consider it important that the principle of proportionality should also be taken into account when the relevant legislation is being prepared. the main objective of regulation, then, in my view, should be to achieve maximum simplicity, transparency and coherence.
i must admit that i have experienced a lot in the ep, but rarely has there been a vote on something as horrible as the report on teaching the eu in schools. i spent 26 years of my life under a communist regime that was characterized, among other things, by preparing children from the first grade by means of various pre-prepared brainwashing for some kind of course of the new socialist man. here i feel like i'm reading a dictionary in a different language, which i read when i was young in those socialist schools. of course, it didn't work then, and it won't work now. no european propaganda, any pre-packaged, pre-fabricated propaganda, will simply improve the image of the eu in the eyes of the public. it will only improve practical steps, it will improve the demonstration of realism, it will improve if integration is not pushed at all costs, but no such european propaganda will simply improve the eu's image in the eyes of the public.
in writing. ‒ a lack of knowledge of the eu and its workings is undoubtedly one of the reasons for the declining trust of european citizens and the spread of euroscepticism. i believe that in order to promote a better understanding of the so-called european added value and a deepening of the european identity of citizens, individual member states should be given more and clearer information about the facts about the eu and its functioning. and it only makes sense to start with the youngest generation, the pupils and students. i also agree that teachers need to be helped in their difficult work by training, adequate teaching materials and adequate funding.
in writing. ‒ although i agreed in principle with the report by mrs drăghici, i could not support it in the final vote and decided to abstain. the european parliament resolution of 12 april 2016 on teaching the eu in school was a step in the right direction, but i still consider education to be the domain of nation states. it is true, however, that the member states should contribute significantly to the information on the powers, activities and results of the work of the european institutions. the awareness of the opportunities offered by the eu is often lamentable, leading to the fact that subsidies are often redistributed by the same people, especially those who do not need them (see the fox's nest). on the other hand, i did not like that mrs drăghici put all criticism of the current functioning of the eu in the euro-sceptic box. i consider myself to be a critic of the eu, but not a eurosceptic. i believe that the current course of european integration is more in favour of big companies, banks and multinational corporations than of citizens, who have little room to do anything about the situation. i see europe as a united effort to ensure that europeans have a decent standard of living, not as an opportunity for the rich to get richer at the expense of the many. does that make me part of the eurosceptic camp? personally, i don't think so, and i don't want to be labeled that way.
in writing. - i voted against it. the proposal calls for the spread of eu propaganda in schools: the eu should be more visible and better integrated into teaching materials and extracurricular activities; students should develop their sense of belonging and european citizenship skills in schools; teachers should include the eu dimension in their teaching; a european approach to history teaching should be promoted; civic education on the eu should be strengthened in order to encourage intercultural and interreligious dialogue among pupils.
in writing. lack of information about the functioning of the european union and the roles of its institutions has a direct impact on the growth of euroscepticism in both the member states and the candidate countries. it is a sad result that less than half of the citizens, especially the young, turned out for the last elections. it is precisely because of this erosion of democratic legitimacy and the deepening of the democratic deficit that it is important to reverse the negative trend of non-use of the right to vote. in-depth learning about european history and contexts will provide the knowledge base needed for social engagement and critical reflection. i therefore believe that the member states should establish a common framework on the basis of which, for example, improvements in teaching, mobility at all levels of education, teacher training, research and the use of new technologies should be made. education on european affairs goes hand in hand with increasing the necessary intercultural tolerance, solidarity, respect for the rule of law and other principles of our democratic heritage. improving education about the european union will enable citizens to make not only democratic but also informed choices in the next elections. they are also less likely to succumb to the radical and nationalist attitudes that have historically only led europe into war.
in writing. - the european union is part of our daily lives. however, in these turbulent times of economic, financial and refugee crisis, the importance of european integration and the eu's core values are being called into question. i believe that these reasons, together with the lack of awareness among citizens of the way the eu works, are a reason to improve their awareness. the proposal to introduce eu-related teaching will provide students with an insight into the processes of adopting european legislation and the overall functioning of the eu. this approach will improve their critical-analytical thinking in relation to media reports and will enable them to better distinguish between true and fabricated information. i believe that eu education will also increase citizens' interest in eu affairs, reduce growing euroscepticism, allow for better formulation of substantive criticism, and at the same time prepare citizens for life and work in an increasingly complex and globalised world. it is necessary to present to pupils and students a comprehensive picture of the eu in order to give them a holistic view of how the eu affects and influences their daily lives. learning about the eu is as important as, for example, teaching history, because it is part of our history and part of our reality. and we should not forget that.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report of the committee on culture and education on teaching eu in school. teaching about the eu is a topic that is more relevant today than ever. in all eu countries, teachers are trying to teach about the eu. the results vary, and unfortunately, they're not always satisfactory. while the eu cannot tell member states or schools what and how to teach, the european commission should provide them with systematic support and create a common framework for the content of education. the emerging house of european history could contribute by developing a methodology and educational modules for teaching history in a european context. the report also calls for better use of the erasmus+ programme for teacher and student training and exchange visits to enhance their motivation and exchange of experience. the european commission should initiate the creation of a certified teacher training module, including a certified output, on a voluntary basis of course. i am convinced that teachers are interested in the subject of the european union and aware of its values, but their duties are focused on pupils' performance in examinations. but if we want our pupils to have a better understanding of how the eu works and not be swayed by populist campaigns, we need to take better care of how citizenship education, including eu awareness, is delivered in schools.
in writing. i supported the report on teaching the eu in school. european values are not something remote and elusive. these are values agreed across the union and should be systematically given sufficient space in teaching for their universal character. such values include the rule of law and free elections. every citizen should be aware of such values and should be aware of their importance in the historical context. enhancing the eu dimension in education can serve as a catalyst for critical discussion between pupils and teachers about such values, as well as an incentive for pupils to actively participate in the governance of public affairs both in their own communities and within the eu. 44% of eu citizens have little awareness of how the eu works. it is therefore necessary to give sufficient space to the union's decision-making processes and institutions in the context of education. if the citizen of the union is to understand, he must obtain basic information about it in a clear way. the pupils' awareness should also be strengthened in the area of 'free movement', ideally in the form of simple practical examples. the report's call for improving teachers' knowledge and skills in this respect is welcome. i also support practical projects, such as the european youth parliament, in which young citizens put their knowledge into practice. i also welcome the plan to make better use of the erasmus+ exchange programme in the future.
in writing. ‒ according to a 2014 eurobarometer opinion poll, 71% of eu citizens felt that they have limited understanding of how the eu works and 52% of europeans believe that their voice does not count in the eu. i voted in favour of introducing the eu dimension in education to remedy to this appalling situation. this will equip our children with a concrete understanding of how the eu works and enable them to critically reflect on european matters and how they influence their own country and identity. instead of allowing the gap between the citizens and the eu to grow even further, it is important to start a dialogue on the eu from a young age, to enable our children to become educated citizens, capable of making their own choices about the european project.
in writing. - i fully support this report. i believe that without a basic understanding of how the european union works, it is impossible to think critically about any european issue, including the values on which european integration is built, and how this project affects the daily lives of citizens within the eu. i believe that teaching about the european union in schools should prepare pupils to play an active role as citizens in an increasingly integrated europe in a globalised world. i personally believe that it is essential that the citizens of the european union have a basic historical knowledge of the eu's historical development and how the eu institutions work, and know the values and objectives towards which this project is heading. i firmly believe that one of the main ways to overcome the euroscepticism that is present in a large part of the population is to strengthen the eu dimension in school education.
in writing. ‒ while the vast majority of university students today take advantage of the opportunities of exchange programmes, only 1% of apprentices engage in mobility programmes. i am therefore pleased that we have adopted this report today by a large majority. it sends a signal to the member states and the commission that we need better access and more opportunities for exchange programmes for students in vocational schools. they will boost the competitiveness of the european labour market and provide young people with valuable experience and skills that will increase their chances of future employment.
in writing. ‒ the european union can be successfully blamed for many things, but we must not forget its merits. few would disagree that erasmus+ and other tools to promote mobility in vocational education and training are among the most successful elements of european integration. i supported the report, among other reasons, because mobility in education and training is important for personal development, social inclusion of young people, multicultural dialogue, tolerance, the ability to work in an intercultural environment and active citizenship, and has clearly demonstrated its contribution in terms of high-quality education and employability. moreover, we must not forget that youth unemployment now stands at 22.1% across the eu. in the czech republic, the situation is not so tragic, but in spain, for example, youth unemployment is still at 50% and there is already talk of a lost generation. it is clear that erasmus+ cannot solve the socioeconomic problems caused by a poorly conceived and ill-considered policy of austerity. however, it will at least allow students from all over europe to exchange experiences and improve their position on the labour market.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree that the needs of people who identify as lgbti should be taken into account in the erasmus programme. how in the world?! should they have the right to choose to study abroad? do they have special accommodations? special needs? i really don't understand, and i'm happy to have it explained.
in writing. ‒ while erasmus is well established in higher education and represents a significant added value for many students across the eu, its weakness is its lack of involvement in apprenticeships. currently, only 1% of young people in work-related training, including apprenticeships, participate in mobility schemes. the conditions for greater mobility of apprentices within the eu should therefore be created so that apprentices have the same opportunities as higher education students. the general public should be informed that erasmus+ is not just a programme for university students, but includes the school education programme (comenius), higher education (erasmus), international higher education (erasmus mundus), vocational education and training (leonardo da vinci) and adult education (grundtvig), as well as youth support (youth in action) and sport.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the erasmus+ programme, which supports mobility in the field of higher education and youth with an international dimension. i believe that a quality education is the best investment in the future of young people, which will be multiplied in life. the experience abroad is an opportunity to develop language skills, gain unique experiences and stimulate entrepreneurship, which is crucial to gaining competitiveness in today's labour market. furthermore, building international youth networks can help to foster mutual tolerance among eu citizens, cross-border cooperation and a deeper sense of belonging to europe. however, the exercise of the right to education should not lead to poverty or deprivation and should therefore be accessible to all, irrespective of social origin and background. there is a need to support individuals who may face socio-economic or other constraints in accessing vocational education and training under erasmus+. the eu must contribute to removing barriers and any forms of discrimination in education systems across member states, thereby motivating not only higher education students to take advantage of the opportunities of erasmus+. i am pleased that the european parliament is looking at the possibilities of simplifying the administrative processes that discourage some individuals from participating in the programme and prevent its easy implementation.
in writing. i welcomed the report on erasmus+ and other instruments to support mobility in vocational education and training. erasmus is the eu's most important tool for enhancing and improving the mobility of pupils, students and teachers, allowing them to gain unique experiences through education and work experience abroad on a regular basis. erasmus+ was created to overlap and replace the various previous programmes and to bring significant progress in the concept of learning-related mobility. there is still room for improvement, and this program is no exception. therefore, more attention needs to be paid to areas that have been neglected, such as vocational education and training. the growing gap between the education system and the business world is particularly problematic. this is also closely linked to the disparity in the recognition and accreditation of studies and work experience. i therefore welcome this report, which proposes solutions to this problematic situation and seeks to bridge the widening gap between education and employment. i am convinced that this initiative is the right way to improve the mobility of all students, including those without a higher education, and has the ambition to reduce the youth unemployment rate in the regions with the greatest shortage of job opportunities.
in writing. i consider erasmus+ to be a desirable means of supporting the education and employment of people, with an emphasis on the acquisition of new experiences and individual development. it is a concept that offers a significant tool to narrow the demonstrable gap between the skills offered and those in demand on the labour market and to tackle unemployment, especially among young people. it is a welcome development to promote various forms of non-formal and informal learning and training. i also see great importance in reflecting on the importance of a common european learning area based on the key element of mobility. i believe that there is a need to address the issue of optimising the skills offered and required on the labour market in the long term, to address the problem of the artificial academisation of certain professions and to strengthen the possibility of mobility. i see erasmus+ as a well-designed project that deserves support.
‒ erasmus+ is making a significant contribution to reducing youth unemployment and increasing the competitiveness of the european economy. therefore, there is a need to further simplify, for example, the mutual recognition of studies, professional practices, attention should also be paid to the training and mobility of teachers involved in the training process. i therefore supported this report, which calls for the introduction of a common reference framework. it is particularly important that the report also addresses people with disabilities, who should be guaranteed access to all erasmus+ scholarship programmes without barriers and without discrimination.
in writing. i supported the report on erasmus+ and other tools to enhance mobility in vocational education and training. erasmus+ is one of the european union's flagship projects, which has the impact of increasing the quality of vocational education and training in the european union. the eu cannot dictate to schools, but it should support best practice that delivers results, improves the quality of education and the success of school leavers. the eur 14 billion for this programme should be used in the most efficient way possible, which is why this report by the european parliament is constructively critical. the report rightly emphasises the need to focus on removing cultural and language barriers to mobility. there is also a need to create greater synergies between the erasmus+ programme and the use of the european structural funds and other eu instruments. the adopted report emphasises that mobility should serve to provide practical experience in the spirit of linking practice and teaching content. mobility can also be part of the solution to long-term unemployment and to the shortage of skilled people in a particular sector.
in writing. i was pleased to support the european parliament's report on erasmus+ and other mobility instruments in the field of education. erasmus+ is one of the most successful programmes of the european union and its further development should therefore be supported. the programme not only enables young europeans to travel and discover other eu member states, their history and culture, to learn new languages effectively and to see the different european education systems. the programme also helps to break down the linguistic and cultural barriers to the mobility of european citizens and, in the same way, contributes to deepening european integration and creating a common european culture and identity. erasmus+ adds to the added value of the original erasmus programme by allowing people not only to study abroad, but also to gain work experience in an international environment through traineeships in a wide range of fields. i consider it very important that this report places considerable emphasis on the concept of continuous lifelong learning, without which a competitive economy cannot exist.
in writing. ‒ experience-oriented education and mobility is essential for personal development, social skills, and language skills, and enables us to react in a flexible way to the rapidly changing world. these qualities are essential for employability on an increasingly competitive and demanding labour market. while most university students participate in exchange programmes, still only 1% of apprentices and other young people currently in professional training are involved in a mobility programme. i voted in favour of the report on erasmus+ and other tools to increase mobility in vocational education, as i truly believe that it can help talented youths and adults get out of unemployment and reach their full potential, and thereby boost the competitiveness of the european labour market. sufficient financial means should therefore be provided. this initiative will also enhance social cohesion, integration and tolerance of diversity, and sustain innovation.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this report on erasmus+. i am aware that there is still room for improvement in this programme, for example in the recognition of accreditation of studies and work experience between countries. on the other hand, i am convinced that erasmus+, which has replaced various previous programmes, represents a significant advance in the field of mobility and education in the common european area. in my opinion, this programme brings a whole range of positive impacts, such as the ability to solve problems, to cope with new and unpredictable situations, to make complex decisions and so on.
in writing. ‒ in my view it is imperative that the eu is able to speak with a united voice in international economic fora. not only will this be more efficient, but it would allow common european goals to be prioritised in discussions in the g20, for example. currently there are too many eu institutions and bodies as well as individual member states which, at times, have different priorities when it comes to global economic policy. this can lead to muddled messages whereas the interest of the eu and member states is to have a strong united voice. in addition, i wholeheartedly agree that there should be an eu code of conduct on transparency, integrity and accountability which should guide eu representatives in international organisations. transparency in particular is key to ensuring that citizens can be aware of the important decisions taken on an international level.
in writing. - i vote against it. the report shows a lack of understanding of the negative impact of international financial institutions, including the international monetary fund, on member states' economies and their contribution to recent currency crises. i also do not agree that the eu should usurp greater representation in transnational financial organisations at the expense of the member states.
in writing. opening up the debate on the role of the european union in the system of international financial, monetary and regulatory bodies and institutions is undoubtedly the right step to remedy the current unfortunate situation, where the union has often taken a divergent stance in its dealings with various international institutions and bodies and, as a result, has also caused a certain apparent weakening of confidence in our side. it is therefore necessary to support all the steps and efforts that lead to greater systematicity in the european parliament's discussions with these organisations and institutions leading to the strengthening of international cooperation on regulatory issues. i welcome the proposal to involve civil society, smes, consumer and employee representatives in these discussions, which will undoubtedly lead to better cooperation across different sectors.
in writing. ‒ a global stable financial system that formulates and enforces standards and rules of conduct at supranational level is essential for investment and growth. i voted in favour of this report, which calls for practical measures to ensure that global institutions adopt better standards of democratic legitimacy, transparency, accountability and integrity. the eu has a great role to play in the emergence of a more balanced multilateral economic and financial cooperation. i particularly agree with the initiative to establish a formal ‘financial dialogue’, and to work on coherent european positions to enhance the eu’s geopolitical influence in global and financial institutions, and defending our strategic interests. the european and national parliaments need to be actively involved to ensure accountability at all levels.
in writing. i supported the proposal to innovate and diversify small-scale coastal fishing in areas that depend on fisheries, mainly because of the important role of coastal fishing in the eu. i see its importance in particular in the fact that it is an important and, in most cases, the only form of livelihood for many people, and also one of the most environmentally sustainable fisheries. i believe that it is necessary to support areas that depend on fisheries so that they can continue to develop and provide people with sufficient livelihoods. the gradual decline in employment and declining profitability in this sector needs to be reversed. the new initiatives have the potential to prevent a significant economic decline, accompanied by depopulation and population movements from some coastal and island areas. however, in order to make full use of innovation and the resources provided, it is first necessary to improve data collection on the state of the seas and oceans. only then will it be possible to evaluate which innovative projects or ways of diversification to implement in the area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that support for the small-scale coastal fishing sector is important for the livelihood of many communities, the promotion of maritime tourism of our islands and tradition. current regulation which is based on a common policy has hindered the development of fishing communities because it has not taken into account the diversity in the coastal regions. this new framework will permit the development of traditional and small-scale fishing communities in line with local and regional specificities. it will need to take into account size of the vessels, gears, techniques, but also socio-economic characteristics and its impact on local communities.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced of the importance of the eu's role and of international cooperation in the conservation of sustainable fish stocks and biodiversity. as the eu's largest importer of fishery products, it must take into account not only the market and industrial aspects of the cfp, but also its social dimension. for developing countries, fishing is a traditional way of life, a source of livelihood, the basis of the economy and therefore of economic development, and i believe that it is the eu's responsibility to promote environmentally and socially sustainable fishing in third countries. the maintenance of aquaculture can be achieved by including transparency provisions in fisheries partnership agreements, which contribute to greater accountability of stakeholders, overall control of fishing effort and verification of imported products. it is also important to improve labour standards and the protection of workers' rights in partner countries, to ensure that third-country nationals are treated to the same standards as eu citizens. i therefore welcome the call on the commission to consider the possibility of applying the provisions on working conditions in the iuu regulation.
in writing. i very much welcome this proposal, which for the first time includes a chapter on the external dimension of fisheries in the basic regulation on the common fisheries policy. in today's ever-developing world, there is a constant increase in economic competition between countries in various fields, including fisheries. in order to gain a competitive advantage, some countries are willing to accept lower environmental, social or safety standards. the eu should therefore use its position in the international community to oppose such practices, which also have a far-reaching impact on natural resources. the eu's strong influence on global fisheries has already been demonstrated by the significant success of the iuu regulation, which has led to improved legislation in many countries around the world. i am therefore convinced that this chapter will bring further positive benefits, leading to the eu maintaining its leadership in high standards, environmental and social sustainability of fisheries and strict implementation of international instruments. only in this way can the eu remain a role model for other countries and build its competitiveness in fisheries on the basis of quality and sustainability.
in writing. ‒ the eu is one of the world’s main fishing players, and has been an example in terms of fishing policy. however, increasingly important players such as china, korea and taiwan, have adopted aggressive policies that are not strictly in line with environmental or fair market policies, to obtain access to declining resources. the eu should take the lead on improving fisheries management and transparency standards, encouraging a race to the top instead of a race to the bottom. it can do so by promoting harmonisation of access conditions, installing regional managements of fisheries, and encouraging third countries to join. the eu has set strict measures to market fish products, in terms of traceability, verification and fighting illegal, unreported, and unregulated (iuu) fishing. this gives the eu a competitive advantage by being better in the environmental and social sustainability of fisheries, strict implementation of international instruments and market regulation.
mr president, i am afraid the current situation is critical. firstly, there are countries or regions in the eu south-east neighbourhood where governing structures or their elements have collapsed or were weakened. somewhere the power vacuum has been filled by da’esh and other fanatics spreading hate and terror. this poses an ongoing challenge for the un, eu external policy and our lives. secondly, in some european districts, the situation was overlooked and developed in such a way that some people can be easy targets for radicalisation. in addition, the attacks were committed by home-grown terrorists. coping with this environment and change represents a gigantic challenge for member states and their municipal authorities. the new unprecedented level of terrorist threat also requires new approaches to cope with it. sharing information between member states at least must become a reality at last. it is also our role to work further on it as well as on other elements of our common approach. no country can do it on its own. the eu with its allies can do so together.
the terrorist attacks in brussels have once again shown us that europe is not safe, as is often said, but instead of starting as quickly as possible to link all the secret and police services and start systematic operations in brussels, where the police do not cooperate, but also in paris, london, berlin, copenhagen, stockholm or the hague, where radical islamists are based, we talk about terrorism as a real and present threat to all of europe. we've known that for years. europe is facing not only newcomers, but also immigrants, third-generation immigrants who don't recognize our values. the war in syria has led to the radicalization of some fundamentalist religious groups. it's something to fight against. ladies and gentlemen, today's europe and the citizens of europe do not want weak politicians who will say phrases, but concrete solutions.
madam president, i believe that the panama papers scandal confirms the need to take bold and efficient action to improve the firmness and efficiency of taxation. the reasons lie not only in the money that should be collected under the budget, but also in the credibility of the government and fairness on the market. it should also be noted that there are some differences between the panama papers and luxleaks. first of all, with the panama papers we are mostly dealing with individuals and not with firms. i believe that with the panama papers we are looking more at tax evasion and not so much at tax avoidance, and the sources of the money in the panama accounts are probably not always that clean. also it should be noted that many cases in the panama papers are a little bit older. i am saying that because the big difference is that in the area of tax manipulation as described in the panama papers, many actions have been taken over the last few years. i am talking especially about the automatic exchange of information and the improvement of anti-money laundering. so that is why i would like to call on the commission to make a review to ascertain if the measures adopted are sufficient, and eventually what are the holes, the missing elements in the regulation that deal with the problems described in the panama papers. also i would like to encourage the commission to continue with its tax agenda, especially in the area of corporate taxation and the improvement of vat collection. it has my full support.
thank you for this proposal, which i welcome. i particularly appreciate the fact that it is based on the principle of not burdening businesses with additional unnecessary administration. the aim is in particular to avoid exposing smes to competitive disadvantages. in this context, i am glad that these undertakings are not affected by the proposal, but i think it is a pity that this is not explicitly mentioned in the proposal. however, it is for the sake of these smes that your proposal is welcome, they are the ones who bear the burden of taxation even for large companies that hide in tax havens. as regards transparency, a solution must be sought which does not reduce the competitiveness of european enterprises, especially small and large ones.
in writing. ensuring maximum tax transparency is one of the long-term priorities of the social democrats. the current panama papers case only shows how big a problem we face. i welcome the fact that this issue is being discussed, but the proposal put forward by the commission is far from sufficient. we do not agree, for example, that the commission's proposal deals only with situations outside the european union, and we will seek to include a much wider range of firms, both outside and within the eu, in the assessment. it's important to know who owns shell companies, who benefits from them, and if we want to be really consistent in this fight, then we have to take a series of comprehensive measures.
i'd like to explain why i've been supporting armenia in its territorial dispute over nagorno-karabakh for many years. it was the bolshevik soviet union, which already in the 1920s, artificially, by dictate, allocated the territory of karabakh to azerbaijan according to the principle of divide and rule. to not support karabakh and armenia in their struggle would be to approve the then violent nationalism of soviet policy. i would like to point out that the osce minsk group co-chairs are calling on the presidents of armenia and azerbaijan to accept the osce mechanism for investigating ceasefire violations. without this mechanism, both sides will continue to blame each other for initiating attacks on the line of contact on the azerbaijani-armenian border. armenia agrees to discuss the details of the mechanism and the osce calls on azerbaijan to do the same.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, first of all i would like to express my view that the policy of the europeans and the americans in the past decades has failed. this was not a successful policy, and i welcome the fact that we have managed to agree on an agreement that is a ‘driving force for change’ – and i would underline the word ‘change’. i am not sure that what we have seen in recent weeks – people being imprisoned and acts similar to that – are the change. i wonder: what is for you the objective of changing that agreement? as politicians we should have an objective. i would appreciate it if you could comment on that. the people that i tend to talk to do not feel that the changes are really occurring. it is not even that they are occurring slowly; they are not occurring. maybe i am ill-informed. i would like to learn more. in fact, the alde presidency delegation, which is to go to cuba, has been waiting for weeks and weeks to get an answer from the cuban authorities as to whether it will be welcome or not. i wonder whether this is also a sign of change. i see cuban diplomats are hopefully taking note of that fact. am i right in saying that there is a provision in the agreement that we will not intervene in the domestic affairs of cuba? i am not quoting now, but what is the meaning and your interpretation of that phrasing? so we need a dialogue for sure, a change for sure, but we really need to see change. we will, as you have said, be debating the agreement here. we want to see the conditionality implemented. i would appreciate your comments on the questions that i have posed.
madam president, i must say that i share president tusk’s comments on the deal with turkey, including the critical remarks. i would like to ask him how we are monitoring the implementation on the turkish side. how are we assessing implementation and how do we analyse and draw conclusions? i would appreciate comments on that. president juncker, i would like to make two remarks. firstly, on the migration issue, you have – quite rightly – asked for guidance from the political groups. i would say that the commission’s proposals contain a number of useful and effective elements. i would probably base myself on the ones that can be speedily and effectively implemented and around which we can unite the european union. i will make one final remark on china. yes to fair trade and fair competition, but this is not what china represents, neither in steel, packaging nor in other industries. i think that we really need to fine-tune some of our trade instruments much more speedily than we are doing.
madam president, firstly let me say that, in spite of all the concerns, i appreciate the progress being made in dealing with the migration crisis in greece. let me thank all those involved from the council and the commission. the speed of the results shows how much time was lost last year, as president tusk mentioned. now we should look to the future, make sure that the promising results in greece continue and focus on other problem areas in the migration crisis. i have in mind italy, in particular, and other parts of the mediterranean. we must find a similar solution that will function well. it will be more difficult than in greece, but the greek case shows that it is possible. let me now say a few words on the economy. just a few days ago i mentioned that it seemed to me that political problems are now larger than economic ones. this is true, and it is not necessarily good news. but let me say that in economic policy we must keep going in the same direction. the government must follow the principles agreed and must implement reform and improve the fiscal situation. on the eu, we have an extensive agenda, including reforms in the tax area and dealing with the future relationship with china. resolving this issue is very important for our future, and i hope we will take it very seriously.
in writing. i have mixed feelings about the outcome of this council. the agreement reached could help the eu reduce the number of illegal immigrants, but at what cost? it is clear that the eu must work with turkey. but turkey must prove that it is a partner for the eu in solving the migration crisis. a partner we can rely on in times like these. if turkey is unable to do so and comes up with meaningless conditions, it cannot count on financial aid from the eu or on the eu28 capitulating to its demands, such as visa liberalisation or the resumption of accession negotiations.
in writing. - i voted against it. i object to the spending of 1.7 million euros to subsidize a failing company and its employees in sweden. i am generally against the existence of a european globalisation adjustment fund. if the money the fund distributes stayed in people's pockets, it would be better for the economy. in my view, this fund is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and interferes with the social policies of individual countries.
in writing. i supported the release of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the kingdom of sweden. in this member state, there has been a massive redundancy of employees who will have to be reintegrated into the local labour market. the production and export of heavy goods vehicles and commercial vehicles in the european union has been replaced by production in asia. this is evidenced by statistics confirming a european decline of up to 10% and, conversely, an upward trend in asian markets. the critical situation in vehicle manufacturing in europe is further confirmed by the fact that 22 applications for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund have already been submitted. sweden has fulfilled all the necessary formal criteria to qualify for the necessary aid of approximately eur 1,8 million. the aid from the european union should in this particular case optimally complement the measures taken by the swedish authorities after the redundancies in 2015 to support the return of the dismissed workers to an optimal supply and demand situation on the labour market.
in writing. ‒ as a social democrat, i must express my support for this decision of the european parliament, which leads to greater solidarity within the european union. i was very pleased to see the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) established in time to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. however, i hope that this european financial instrument will not be a substitute for the member state's obligations in the field of the labour market or passive social protection measures, and i also expect members of the european parliament to be kept fully informed of the complementarity of these measures financed by the egf. i firmly believe that this decision will lead to much better protection for dismissed volvo trucks workers, so that they do not have to be on the margins of society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure which will enable volvo’s workers in sweden, who lost their job due to the rapid changes induced by globalisation, to reintegrate the labour market as quickly and efficiently as possible. through this fund, the workers will be provided with training, guidance, job-search facilitation, transfer of experiences, support for enterprise creation and collective projects, as well as job-search and training allowances. i believe that this is an important instrument to alleviate the sometimes harsh consequences of globalisation, reduce unemployment periods to their maximum, encourage labour flexibility and thus increase the competitiveness and sustainability of european market.
in writing. i voted against it. i do not agree with the expenditure of eur 380 000 on 'technical assistance', which is essentially bureaucratic expenditure to finance the preparation, monitoring, data collection and knowledge base building, administrative and technical support, information and communication activities, as well as audit, control and evaluation activities necessary for the implementation of the egf regulation. i am generally against the existence of a european globalisation adjustment fund. if the money the fund distributes stayed in people's pockets, it would be better for the economy. in my view, this fund is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and interferes with the social policies of individual countries.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important instrument in combatting the negative consequences of globalisation, helping workers who lost their job due to conditions outside of their control, to reintegrate the labour market as quickly as possible. the fund is key to reduce unemployment periods to their maximum, encourage labour flexibility and thus increase the competitiveness and sustainability of european market. i also believe that the egf should help combat ongoing youth unemployment in europe, by providing the education and training necessary for the youth to access jobs.
in writing. ‒ i support the transfer of funds to offer emergency support to tackle the humanitarian consequences of the migration crisis. in my view this is a much better use of the money than funding the failed relocation scheme. the humanitarian needs on the borders of the eu are high, and i feel it is necessary to give support to countries dealing with the large influx of refugees. i agree that the eu will need to have a longer term approach in terms of budgetary planning for the coming years. as long as the war rages on in syria, refugees will continue to make the journey to europe. we need to be prepared and equipped for this.
in writing. - i was sweating. the proposal proposes to increase the number of staff in the europol counter-terrorism unit and approves the allocation of eur 300 million for humanitarian aid in connection with the migration crisis. i think it is appropriate to help, for example, greece with the funding of refugee camps at the expense of other eu expenditure. but i am skeptical about the eu's ability to address the humanitarian challenges associated with migration, and the solution is primarily up to the member states, and the fact is that member states and their citizens, including the czech republic, are helping countries in southeastern europe on a voluntary basis with border protection and with addressing the humanitarian crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the first draft amending budget this year, as it will allow the european union countries affected by the migration crisis to provide emergency aid of eur 100 million. i consider it very important that the corrective budget be adopted as soon as possible, as it will also include the reinforcement of the european counter-terrorism centre, which should play a key role in preventing possible further attacks on the territory of the european union. i am glad that the financing of both humanitarian aid and the fight against terrorism is not being dealt with by shifting funds from other budget chapters and thus not taking resources from other important policies. but i am not too pleased that this has only happened in the context of the relevant third chapter 'security and citizenship'. the funds in this chapter were also committed for other purposes. i therefore expect member states to act with prudence and responsibility in the context of the revision of the multiannual financial framework and to approve the necessary increases in budgetary ceilings. it is no longer possible to simply move funds from one envelope to another or to create financial mechanisms outside the official budget. such actions only undermine transparency, legitimacy and trust.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a new instrument to address humanitarian needs within the eu, as the recent massive influx of refugees and migrants into europe has created an exceptional emergency situation, which has overstretched the response capacity of the most affected countries. i particularly welcome the proposition to increase the staffing for europol’s european counter-terrorism centre, considering the current security situation. i also agree that all agencies dealing with migration and security should be exempted from the planned 5% cut in staff, given the remarkable increase in workload over the past two years. however, this crisis is also a lesson for the future. we need to come up with a flexible way how to mobilise humanitarian aid for inside the eu when it is outside the ceiling set out by the annual budget, if we want to be able to address such emergency situations with more dignity and efficiency than this time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors. i am certain that his experience at the court of audit of the republic of slovenia as a supreme state auditor, and his experience in audit in the private sector will provide with the tools needed to deliver an excellent job.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of mihails kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors. through his long year in-depth experience in the field of eu policy-making, including in economic, financial and tax policies, advisory, development banking, diplomacy and communication, as well as his rich network in the eu institutions, i believe that mihails kozlovs will be able to up for the challenge.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the nomination of mr jan gregor not only because he is a czech candidate, but above all because i am convinced of his undisputed professional qualities, which he will be able to contribute in his capacity as a member of the court of auditors of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors. building on his long-standing experience in the european banking and financial sector, i am certain that jan gregor will be able to fulfil the requirements of his new job.
in writing. i voted for the four approved candidates for the posts of members of the european court of auditors, as i believe that these are the individuals who are able to offer high quality, commitment and long experience in their position. above all, i am very grateful to have been able to support the new czech member of the court of auditors, jan gregor, who will replace jan kinst, a very capable and hardworking man whom i greatly respect. i believe that jan gregor will be a very good successor, who will bring to the new position his rich experience from the ministry of finance of the czech republic and who will advocate for greater transparency and integrity in the european union. i look forward to working with mr gregor and the other new members of the european parliament.
in writing. i supported the slovak candidate for the european court of auditors, ladislav balk, whom i highly respect for his professional experience and the work he has done so far.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ladislav balko the renewing the nomination of as a member of the court of auditors. in addition to his experience in the court of auditors, his journey in the financial field, but also his role as adviser to the prime minister of the slovak republic for finance and foreign investment, during which he played a strong role in contribution to the adoption of the euro in slovakia will make of him an excellent candidate for the job.
in writing. ‒ i voted against of the nomination of janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors, in line with the opinion of the committee on budgetary control (cont).
i admit that my opinion on this matter has been evolving, even as this objection was being discussed in the last plenary session, so i took the liberty of criticising the commissioner for a certain laxity in this matter, precisely as regards the provision of scientific knowledge. i was also told by the farmers' representatives that glyphosate is a probable carcinogen, but it is just as likely to be a carcinogen as, say, car exhaust, and we are not going to ban cars right away. i therefore endorsed the compromise proposal which was tabled here in this house and which was approved, and i also changed my opinion which i had had last time and which i was able to present in plenary after having been informed of the specific findings which were presented by farmers, for example. i think it's important that this time frame be used for further scientific monitoring of not only the substance itself but also the 500 or so derivatives that are still circulating.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection because i believe that the evaluation process for the active substance glyphosate is transparent, subject to strict rules and also subject to scrutiny by the ch, independent institutions and citizens. it shall also provide sufficient guarantees that immediate remedial action will be taken in the event of proven adverse effects of the pesticide active substance. a resolution by the ep on this issue would set a precedent that would undermine the credibility of current practices based on the scientifically sound conclusions of efsa's evaluations and the ability of member states to assess and decide on the risks of formulations at national level.
in writing. ‒ on wednesday 13 april, we voted on our objection to the renewal of the approval of the herbicide glyphosate for use in the eu. first of all, i have to say that i'm very disappointed with the overall outcome of the vote. having to vote against your text is never a pleasant experience. our objection was distorted by right-wing factions who proposed amendments to weaken the total ban on glyphosate in the eu. and unfortunately, they were able to accept it. the amendment finally succeeded, calling on the commission to renew the authorisation of glyphosate for a further 7 years without further evaluation. this is a blank check for the commission from the original text, which was supposed to say no to the use of glyphosate in the eu, in the sense that if you allow its use for 7 years, we don't care what the basis is. the only consolation is that the proposal calls on the commission to restrict the use of this substance to professionals. glyphosate is carcinogenic to both animals and probably to humans and its authorisation should not, in my view, be renewed in any way. this is a disgusting gamble on the health of european citizens. it is also completely against the will of more than two-thirds of the citizens of the european union. since the text adopted has completely lost its original meaning, i was obliged to vote against this proposal.
in writing. i voted against it. in voting against the objection raised by the environment committee, i de facto supported the decision of the european commission to renew the authorisation for the chemical glyphosate. the chemical glyphosate is commonly used in horticulture and agriculture to control pests. the substance has no proven unquestionable adverse effects on human health and i am in favour of its continued use and its effects on human health being further investigated.
in writing. there's been a heated debate in europe for months about glyphosate. this herbicide is used not only to kill weeds but also to dry out, for example, beets, corn, sunflowers, grains, and other crops before harvest. research from 2013 showed that up to 60% of the population of the czech republic has glyphosate in their urine. so we have to take scientific studies that show that this substance is probably carcinogenic very seriously. the objection, which was approved by the european parliament this week, will have the effect of stopping the use of glyphosate-containing products near public playgrounds and parks or in gardens and orchards. the authorisation for its use will then have to be renewed every seven years, as opposed to the original 15 years proposed by the commission. but it's certainly not a massive success, because the changes are not enough. i would of course like to see substances like glyphosate, which raise more than legitimate concerns for the health of european union citizens, simply withdrawn from the market. the amendments tabled by the ppe group in particular have failed to make some of the original proposals stick and i can only speculate whether the softening of the original text by the ppe was not the result of persuasion by the agrotechnical giant monsanto, whose flagship product roundup contains this most widespread pesticide. but as social democrats, we must not abandon the battlefield when it comes to the health of our citizens.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's resolution on glyphosate as amended by my ppe group's proposals. we know that in the past year, the safety of glyphosate, used primarily for herbicides, has been investigated by both the international agency for research on cancer and the european food safety authority. these institutions have reached different conclusions and therefore this matter needs to be addressed, also in the light of the precautionary principle. it should also be noted that the european food safety authority, which found no danger to human health in glyphosate, submitted its conclusions to a public debate, with the contribution of experts from eu countries. in view of the above circumstances and also taking into account the opinion of the czech ministry of agriculture, i consider it correct to adopt a compromise solution, i.e. not to ban glyphosate completely, but to keep its use more under control as a precaution. the european parliament proposes to restrict the use of glyphosate to professionals who should be provided with the necessary information and to place strict restrictions on its use immediately before harvest. i also voted to reduce the time that glyphosate should be allowed to be extended to seven years.
in writing. ‒ i do not consider an eu-wide ban on glyphosate necessary as i believe the regular evaluation process is transparent, follows standard rules and is subject to scrutiny by member states, independent institutions as well as the people, and that it has sufficient safe checks. i therefore voted against the european parliament resolution. i believe that questioning efsa science based evaluation put the credibility of the existing procedures into question.
i voted in favour of this report. there are several reasons. firstly, i think that the report very well develops the concept of the wider european neighbourhood, which is intended to be a certain answer to the fact that it is unlikely that all the states of the european continent as such can be admitted to the union, but it is precisely this system of the wider neighbourhood that must be developed with those regions which for various reasons cannot become members of the union. i think that is very well dealt with in this report. i also support the establishment or further deepening of a defence and security policy strategy, including the creation of our own defence and security forces. i am convinced that although there is a berlin 1 and berlin 2 agreement which allows the eu to use nato security forces in certain circumstances, this issue is unsustainable in the future without the union building up at least part of its security forces. that is why i also supported the report.
in writing. whereas the motion for a resolution contained, in paragraph 13, that the european parliament 'recognises the importance of deepening cooperation between the eu and nato, which could ensure coordination of operations, and supports the creation of a european force complementary to nato in the field of territorial defence and capable of carrying out independent operations beyond the borders of the eu'; stresses that the csdp should consolidate the european pillar of nato and ensure that the european members of nato effectively fulfil their obligations within the organisation; proposes to combine the concept of eu battle groups and nato rapid reaction forces; the european parliament, in its resolution of 15 december, on the european union's role in the world, stresses that military contributions should be based on the principle of solidarity between eu member states. i believe that the existence of an organization whose justification ended with the cold war rather complicates the security and military situation. nato military interventions often destabilise countries close to the eu, and the consequences are also seen in the context of the migration crisis. so i don't see how an organization that is directly responsible for some of the problems we face can help us, and why it should be a partner for us. an organisation with a 20th century mentality cannot help us with the dilemmas of the new millennium, and we should rather talk about how we end our cooperation with nato.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report supports the creation of a european military structure. i support the principle of unanimity for military action as enshrined in the nato treaty and for bilateral military cooperation. so i don't support any move to create a joint decision-making body on military action. the common decision on migration and asylum should serve as a warning to us.
in writing. ‒ in view of the events of recent years, i voted in favour of the report on the eu's role in a changing world. european integration has always been a process that has brought peace and stability to europe. however, given the eu's role in the global world, it has a duty not only to ensure the security of its citizens, but also to promote peace and values in its external relations, thus contributing constructively to global security and cooperation. the challenges we face in the eu on a daily basis show that we must not only be reactive, but also be prepared to prevent crises of all kinds. however, this requires a union-wide consensus. we should demonstrate that the eu, as an actor in international relations, is capable of shaping global developments. to achieve this, however, it is necessary to take greater responsibility for one's own safety. i therefore welcome the mention of the urgent need to develop our own capacities and to explore the possibilities of effective cooperation in accordance with common principles and solidarity.
in writing. ‒ in this very complex international situation, with several conflicts taking place close to the borders of the european union, it is very appropriate for the european parliament to adopt a report that summarises what is our unifying element. the report recalls that the european union's objective is to promote peace and the democratic values on which the eu is founded, and to promote the well-being of its citizens while ensuring the security of its citizens within the eu. i would like to stress the importance of the requirement that the eu must ensure the security of energy and raw materials supply while taking into account the consequences of climate change that need to be addressed urgently, and that the eu must play a leading role in the global response to this change and in promoting sustainable development.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the eu in a changing global environment a more connected, contested and complex world, which is the european parliament's contribution to the new eu global security strategy being prepared by the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy. the report argues that if the eu is to fulfil its core tasks, namely to ensure the security of its citizens and to create the conditions for the preservation of a democratic society, it is necessary to strengthen cooperation between member states in the field of foreign and security policy, to pursue its interests in the world consistently while maintaining the transatlantic link, to stabilise the regions bordering the eu and to reflect the growing role of new technologies in the field of security.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out the eu’s new global strategy in light of the new global challenges and security threats. i voted in favour, as i agree that our strategy must be anchored in our fundamental values of peace, well-being and security and carried by a real commitment to implement them. however, we must ensure that these values are inclusive and shared, which has not been the case, as this year’s tragic events have reminded us. while our presence globally is very important, we need to pay particular attention to stabilising europe’s wider neighbourhood, by standing firm by our values, taking on more responsibility and engaging in constructive partnerships. strengthening our defence capabilities as well as real intelligence sharing between all members is also essential.
in writing. - i didn't support the report. i am convinced that instead of building european armies, we should strengthen europe's position in nato. the creation of new units would be very difficult from the command point of view. we already have one very functional defense system, so it's completely pointless to build a parallel one.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this report of the european parliament because i am convinced that one of the main objectives of the european union is to promote peace, european values, the well-being and security of its citizens throughout the eu. i believe it is essential that the eu is able to ensure its internal and external resilience and to anticipate and address the challenges and threats of today's increasingly complex world. in this respect, i am convinced that the european union must play a leading role in the global response to climate change and be able to address these changes rapidly, thereby ensuring its energy security. the european union must become a more credible global actor and take greater responsibility for filling the security gap in its near and far neighbourhood.
in writing. i supported the european parliament resolution of 13 april 2016 on the implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia, in particular because it states that it is in the key interest of china, the eu and russia to build a strategic, modern and interoperable road and rail infrastructure system along the silk road and that successful integration of the region through modern and reliable infrastructure would be an excellent opportunity not only for deeper regional economic integration but also for promoting mobility of the population and multicultural exchanges, while creating a more favourable environment for progress on rule of law and democracy. i am glad that in this resolution the european parliament is seeking to find common ground between these world players and is not limiting itself to criticising these states. by working together, we can learn from each other and, moreover, this contributes greatly to peaceful coexistence. the resolution also calls for the establishment of strong and friendly relations with uzbekistan, turkmenistan, tajikistan, kyrgyzstan and kazakhstan. personally, i'm happy for any report that recognizes that cooperation and diplomacy are better ways than confrontation.
‒ from a strategic perspective, we need to strengthen the eu's relations with the countries of the central asian region in the long term. first and foremost, there is a need to strengthen trade and exchange. in response to the growing regional influence of russia and china, the eu needs to be more proactive. the conclusion of an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement with kazakhstan is a good example, but much more focus is needed on bilateral relations with other countries in the region. at the same time, the eu must make trade agreements conditional on improvements, especially in the area of human rights and freedom of expression and media. for me, as a member of the itre committee, central asia's role as a strategic partner for the eu in the efforts to diversify energy sources and ensure energy security is key. i will support the modernisation and diversification of the economies of the countries in the region and the creation of an enabling environment for foreign investment, subject to the strengthening of the rule of law, the improvement of the business environment, judicial reform and ensuring more comprehensive protection of property rights and foreign investment.
‒ the european union should certainly not be seen as a closed community of its 28 member states, but as an organisation representing those states and ready to enter into active partnerships with other democratic states outside the union, which can undoubtedly be beneficial for the citizens of the european union. the european union's cooperation with central asia has an important role to play in enhancing security, supporting the democratisation of post-soviet societies and emphasising respect for human rights in these asian countries. i see the launch of european union cooperation with kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan, uzbekistan and turkmenistan as a major step towards strengthening mutual relations of strategic, political and economic importance. i welcome the emphasis on strengthening peace and respect for human rights in these regions and the mutual effort to reach compromise and common agreement. the report itself also addresses the educational gaps in these areas, and helps to build trade and promote sustainable development in these regions.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's report on the implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia because, while correctly stating the strategic importance of the region for the eu, it does not ignore the shortcomings in respect of human rights, the rule of law and democratic governance in the individual states of the region. on the contrary, it draws attention to specific cases of discrimination against opposition representatives and further calls on the eeas to assess not only the adoption of reform laws but also the quality of their subsequent implementation. the report also rightly points out that if the eu is to increase its 'presence' in the region, this can only be achieved by individual member states applying as much of a common foreign policy as possible with respect to individual states in the region.
in writing. ‒ central asia is a natural bridge between eastern asia and europe, but also a region of increasingly strategic importance due to its important energy resources. nevertheless, our economic and political cooperation and engagement with central asia set out in the eu-central asia strategy has been far from successful. this is why i voted in favour of this review. while our strategy already goes in the right direction, we need to adapt our approach more to country specificities. we should also make cooperation and aid conditional upon the fulfilment of criteria such as democratisation, fighting corruption, stopping drug trafficking, and improving labour laws. in fact, the human rights record in several of these countries is precarious, and it is our moral duty to support the victims of frequent abuses.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this report of the european parliament because i am aware of the eu's strong strategic, political and economic interest in strengthening bilateral and multilateral relations with the central asian states. the european union is interested in prosperity and peace in the region. i am fully aware of the importance of the central asian region to the eu in terms of its economic potential, energy diversification and geostrategic and security interests. personally, i am in favour of deepening the already existing links between the countries of the region and at the same time coordinating policies with the eu. at the same time, i am also convinced of the importance of close cooperation in this area with the united states, russia and china, with a view to ensuring long-term and sustainable development.
in writing. on the 13th, we voted on the motion for a resolution on the zika virus epidemic. as a co-author of the adopted text, i was able to contribute to its drafting from the very beginning. in discussing the proposal, i relied on information provided to me by the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) as the european parliament's contact person. sadly, it is becoming almost a rule that we encounter a new, terrible epidemic of some virus every year or so. last year it was ebola, today it's zika. contrary to initial reports of this virus, today we are learning the shocking truth that zika is an even bigger problem than initially thought. in addition to severe developmental disorders, such as brain or head stunted growth (microcephaly), the virus is also thought to cause other brain disorders and damage. i'm glad the bill welcomes a greater release of resources to study this virus and its effects on the human body. we need to find out as quickly as possible what exactly causes zika and how to successfully fight it. the text also included a call for further investigation of the effects of the pesticide pyriproxifen on the virus and its link to microcephaly. i'm very glad that we were able to come up with a balanced text that i could finally support.
in writing. i supported the resolution which, in the context of the zika virus epidemic, points to weaknesses both in the response of public health systems, especially at the primary care level, and in the provision of reproductive health services and the rights of women and girls in affected countries, especially with regard to information and care during and after pregnancy termination. simply recommending that a pregnancy be postponed until more is known about zika is not an adequate and satisfactory response. given that there is currently no prevention, treatment or vaccine to protect against this viral infection and that there may be a risk of local transmission in europe during the summer season of 2016, the commission should rapidly carry out an analysis of insecticides with regard to human health and efficacy against mosquitoes vectors of the infection.
in writing. i support the adoption of a report to propose preventive measures to prevent the spread of the zika virus. on 1 february 2016, the world health organisation designated the zika virus epidemic as a public health emergency of international concern. zika virus has been reported sporadically in the past in two european regions, martinique and french guiana. later, it appeared outside its native range, leading to an outbreak in micronesia and, a few years later, in french polynesia. in addition, it has been discovered that this virus can cause neurological diseases. although no case of transmission of this disease has been reported on the european continent, adequate precautions must be taken to prevent the spread of the virus. the need for prevention and adequate resources to combat this virus is particularly important given the possible link between zika virus infection in pregnant women and the increase in microcephaly. unfortunately, there is no specific treatment for microcephaly or zika virus, and there is a particular need to raise awareness among citizens and experts on how to protect themselves from infection. in the context of this report, i also welcomed the commission's decision to allocate eur 10 million for zika virus research.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution which stressed the need for zika virus research and the need for rapid diagnosis, treatment and vaccination. the zika virus epidemic is a global health threat and measures must be taken to stop it. its effects are made all the more serious by the fact that it affects primarily pregnant women and newborns. last but not least, it also highlights the seriousness of the problem of complex access to contraception in the least developed areas of the world.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's motion for a resolution, which draws attention to the current and serious problem of the zika virus epidemic, has been ideologically abused. i couldn't support him after all. the resolution focuses on scientific research, its promotion and coordination. intensive development of vaccines and drugs is necessary, and research should also help to identify zika virus more clearly from other diseases based on symptoms, and also to clarify why a virus first reported in humans as early as 1952 has now emerged as an epidemic of this magnitude. the resolution calls on the commission to consider increasing the amount to be allocated to the fight against zika virus. even in a rough comparison, €10 million seems insufficient to the billions of dollars that are to be released in the us to fight the virus. the proposal also targets practical issues such as disinfection on the way from infected countries and public awareness. on all these points, the resolution has my clear support. however, amendments were voted on in the resolution, which i do not agree with. the resolution, in its final form, also contained generalizations in favor of abortion. it is not the first time that these amendments have devalued resolutions, and this practice has a negative impact on the outcomes of the european parliament. the resolution as it was finally adopted was therefore adopted without my support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, as i believe it is fundamental that the european union sets up an action plan to fight the emerging mosquito-borne virus, zika, inside europe, as prevention will be much more effective than coming up with emergency responses once it is too late. increasing awareness about the virus, about its channels of transmission and its symptoms through a good communications plan, would be an essential first step.
in writing. ‒ i believe that in cases where there is such a high risk of harm to the foetus, the mother should be free to choose whether or not to terminate the maternity. i therefore voted against my polish colleagues and supported the report.
there is no doubt that the ep made a serious mistake today by voting for this resolution, underlining the eu's place not only in poland but also in other eu member states. i remember this being the third time the ep has openly interfered in the internal affairs of an eu member state. it was austria once, hungary then, now poland, and there were always political reasons behind it. these have always been actions against the representation of a country which did not share the ideas represented in the ep by the mainstream, namely the european people's party and the european socialists. it's a warning to the new polish government. i don't think it's possible to accept that. it was a mistake, and as the chairman of the alliance of european conservatives, of which the polish ruling law and justice party is a member, i strongly object to this approach.
in writing. the resolution adopted calls on the polish government to respect the values and principles which all member states have committed themselves to respect and observe. parliament also called for the recognition of the constitutional tribunal's judgments and the recommendations of the venice commission. i support the structured dialogue that the european commission has established with the polish government to clarify whether democratic values and the rule of law are being systematically undermined in poland. the commission stated that this dialogue would be conducted in an impartial and cooperative manner with the aim of offering poland assistance in finding solutions and strengthening the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ the current political situation in poland is troubling. an effective democracy should have a good system of checks, balances and accountability. the overriding concern in this resolution was regarding the venice commission’s report on the changes being made to poland’s constitutional tribunal as well as the unpublished verdict of the constitutional tribunal of 9 march 2016. i share the view that the crippling of the tribunal would undermine democracy, human rights and the rule of law. i fully support this resolution and call on the polish government to fully uphold the common eu values outlined in article 2 of the teu.
in writing. on wednesday 13 april 2016, a closely watched resolution on the current constitutional situation in poland was voted in plenary in strasbourg. personally, i am generally strongly against any interference by the european union in the internal political processes taking place not only in any member state but also outside the eu. however, the current constitutional, political and even social crisis in poland can no longer leave me cold. in poland, citizens are now constantly mobilizing against their own government, which is progressively questioning some basic human rights, restricting the functioning of key constitutional institutions, and attacking women, and some minorities are reverting to the dark ages in their views. it should be recalled that constitutional democracy, the independence of the judiciary, fundamental rights, including freedom of the media, and the right of a woman to choose freely to have an abortion are universal principles that must always be recognised and supported by all member states and are, above all, one of the basic conditions for a country's membership of the european union. unfortunately, my group failed to get a resolution to include a stronger criticism of the abortion ban. however, since the text has managed to avoid being reduced to cheap political shortcuts and has remained fairly balanced in terms of the facts clearly presented, i am glad that i was able to support it.
in writing. - i voted against it. i consider the proposal an inappropriate interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. the proposal is a threat to democracy, human rights and the rule of law in poland, which i do not agree with. it is absurd that the procedure initiated by the commission against poland could lead to poland being deprived of its voting rights in the council. the eu has nothing to teach poland about democracy!
in writing. i supported the resolution on poland, the main point of which is to call on the polish government to implement fully the recommendations of the venice commission and to express my agreement with the opinion of the venice commission that the polish constitution, as well as european and international standards, requires that the decisions of the constitutional courts be respected. it is the failure to respect the decision of the constitutional court that is probably the area where the polish government is under the most pressure. the european integration process allows member states to negotiate an exception for a given area of european law or for a specific step of integration. however, if such an exception could also apply to the principles of the democratic rule of law, it would undermine the very foundations of the eu. therefore, it is necessary to insist strongly that the polish government bring its actions into line with european values.
‒ democracy and the rule of law are among the fundamental values on which the eu and its member states are founded. in cases of doubt about the compliance of some member states with these values, the eu should be alerted. the european commission opened a dialogue with the polish government in january on some of the controversial reforms that have taken place in poland. it has not yet reached a clear conclusion, but the recent crisis around the constitutional court of the pr shows a possible threat to the values of the rule of law and the polish government should know that it cannot afford everything, even if it was democratically elected. i have had a long discussion with my polish colleagues in the epp group on the situation in poland and i respect their views. that is why, after some hesitation, i supported the motion for a resolution which reflects the situation surrounding the polish constitutional tribunal and calls on the polish government to respect the opinion of the venice commission and to stop limiting the constitutional tribunal. the commission criticised as unconstitutional the election of new members of the court by the previous and current parliaments and the increase of the quorum to 13 out of a total of 15 judges. i am confident that the deadlock surrounding the polish constitutional tribunal will be resolved to the satisfaction of all parties so that it can resume its normal functioning. i would like to stress that the european union is fully committed to the implementation of the agreements reached in the framework of the european union-poland association agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it is a vigorous and direct message the european parliament has sent to poland’s pis government. under the leadership of alde the resolution adopted was supported by a large majority of the european parliament. it urges the polish government to publish the verdict of the constitutional tribunal and to deliver the recommendations set out by the venice commission on legal changes to the polish constitutional court’s functioning.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this resolution because i consider it to be an unacceptable interference with the competences of the national state. the commission should not play the role of a fact-finding mission to a democratically elected government.
i would like to begin by thanking both rapporteurs, because in my opinion they are really very good reports and, as the commissioner said, this work is truly monumental. if you compare the scope of the legislation that was in force or will be in force for some time before the adoption of this legislation, it is incomparable. i must therefore also note that this new legislation clarifies to a considerable extent a number of ambiguities in the former legislation or in the legislation currently in force, that it also removes a number of blanks, that it builds on technological neutrality. i could calculate the number of terms of this proposed amendment, but i don't have enough time. as for certain negatives, i still feel that even in data protection there is a principle of more or less large paternalisation, that is, the effort to obtain as many instructions as possible, to obtain as many descriptions of certain situations, facts, in law as possible. i think we should also follow the principle of 'vigilantibus iura', i.e. that everyone should take care of their rights to some extent and the legislation should not be so descriptive. it is also a question of whether the amendment is not too complicated, but these are things that can be read in principle about every legislation. i am sure that i can congratulate you and i am very pleased that parliament can also boast of this success.
today we're talking about storing and sharing personal data for the safety of eu citizens. i regard this directive as the minimum we can do to improve safety. those who have been blocking the adoption of this directive, this minimum safety standard, for five years, i would like to say to them that their reasons must be called by their real name. i respect that, don't vote for it, but don't say it's for personal security, privacy, because if you have any card that you buy your train tickets on, you're giving your data for a long time to all the companies that can use it. it's ideological reasons, and anyone who's serious about protecting and keeping eu citizens safe has to vote for the pnr.
i think we need to think very deeply about how we want to treat those who elected us to the ep. do we really want to decide to spy on them more, to keep as much data on them as possible? are they all potential criminals to us, and do we have to watch their every move? personally, i have more faith in our citizens and refuse to submit to the peaceful majority treatment we set up against individuals who refuse to submit to the rule of law. i don't know how you're going to stand in front of your constituents in three years and explain to them how you're going to vote tomorrow. i realize you're probably gonna keep this quiet, but i think it's a very dirty game.
i highly value turkey as our nato ally. i appreciate the turkish initiative in dealing with the refugee issue. it is because of this cooperation that i protest against the violence that turkey is committing against the kurds. they do it on turkish soil, like the destruction of cizre. he's been bombing kurdish camps in iraq, backing an is attack on the syrian city of kobani. the pkk, whose terror i reject, is also developing a spiral of mutual hatred. but often kurdish terror is a response to the terror of the turkish armed forces. i understand that turkey's national policy has changed in recent decades. for example, turkey no longer calls the kurds mountain turks, the kurds have their representation in the turkish parliament. the turkish public is beginning to address historical tragedies and turkish nationalism, see for example the public memory of the armenian genocide. the memorial will be held next week in istanbul.
in writing. turkey first applied to join the eu in 1963. it was not rejected at the time, but the european community institutions then declared that turkey first had to carry out a number of fundamental reforms. since then, this formulation has been repeated in relation to turkey. a peculiarity of turkish society since the days of mustafa kemal pasha (atatürk) has always been the strict separation of state and church, which has always been guaranteed by the army. if the military judged that a party was too religious, it was disbanded. so the islamist akp has many predecessors. only the current turkish president has managed to break this tradition, and the result is, unfortunately, the gradual islamization of turkish society. corruption in the judiciary has not gone away, tolerance of non-islamic religions has not improved, improvements in the rights of national minorities are stagnating, the war against the kurds continues, the women's rights movement is not yet in its prime. the continued occupation of northern cyprus without a corresponding comment from the eu institutions shows the inability of the apparatus to negotiate a remedy for such a flagrant violation of international law. in this situation, i consider it unwise to open an account to turkey for eur 6 billion with very vague conditions. i recommend that we continue to discuss with turkey the possibility of harmonising legislation and the possibility of a broad application of eu standards in the various areas of the country's social life, but i must reject the report as it is worded.
let me begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs constance le grippe, of the committee on legal affairs, and the other colleagues who have contributed to the agreement we are voting on tomorrow. i think we have reached a good compromise, which has been supported by an overwhelming majority of colleagues in the committee. the proposal stems from the fact that trade secrets are an important institution in commercial law and commercial relations. as such, they deserve protection and effective regulation. it is about fighting unfair practices, which is the goal of all 28 eu member states. it is therefore good that we are moving towards a single piece of basic legislation that will support the eu economy. her absence causes economic damage every day. trade secrets also have a relationship with intellectual property and their protection is therefore also important for the development of research and the digital market. the institute has a clearly stated purpose, which is certainly not to impede freedom of speech, expression, free access to information, or the disclosure of bad practices or illegal activities. i think the compromise is a good one, and that's why i'm going to support it tomorrow.
i'll repeat myself on one thing when i thank the reporter and all the shadow reporters for their great work, but i have an idea for you that is completely original, and it hasn't been said here today. some of you may not be aware of this fact, but as the ep becomes more and more important, so does its own vulnerability. so in the future budget we must not only ensure sufficient funding for the security of our buildings, but also some flexibility in implementing ad hoc security measures, as we have been able to face this year. there is another aspect to this. there is no point in debating whether our trips here to strasbourg are an inefficient use of european taxpayers' money. that's just the fact. the ep does not have one or two buildings, it has three buildings, ladies and gentlemen, in which it has to increase security measures to ensure the safety of all those who work there. has anyone ever considered how much money we would save if we were to demolish these buildings? in any case, the ep's budget should not be about revenue on the one hand and expenditure on the other, but about how this money is used. and i would like to encourage all of us in this room to do that and to take better care of this site.
in writing. i am very pleased that the committee on budgets was able to agree so quickly on the estimated budget of the european parliament for 2017. especially given the circumstances our institution has been built to withstand in recent months. i am thinking in this context of terrorist attacks and the provision of security for parliament's staff. parliament's budget will increase by 3.4% year on year, but the increase in current expenditure will be only 1.4%. parliament's budget will therefore continue to represent less than 20% of total budget expenditure for administrative purposes. i am very pleased that we are able to keep parliament's expenditure under control even in such a difficult period and that parliament is continuing on the path of inquiry by introducing further environmental measures. we must manage the european budget efficiently and transparently. i therefore urge the secretary-general to make a clear distinction between expenditure and plans of an investment nature and current expenditure when drawing up the draft budget next. information on the administration must also be made more accessible to citizens who are entitled to consult the administration of the institution representing their interests at any time. i look forward to comparing the efficiency of this parliament with that of national parliaments.
for the efdd group. when i read the report on the targets for reducing poverty and increasing household costs, i thought it was just some modern communist manifesto that had been created on the green-left fringe of this parliament, and i was therefore shocked when commissioner thyssen herself said that the report helps us to stay on track. do you really think that the poverty reduction will help us, and i quote from the report, by holding the summit? do you really think you should be calling on member states to include more women in fields such as engineering? do you really think that member states should regulate rents? do you really think that member states should provide so-called minimum income, housing allowances? do you really think that the member states and the eu should give micro-credit to poor people to make them even more indebted? i'll tell you what i think this ep and the eu could do. two simple things. first, to eliminate the senseless taxes on electricity, gas and coal that make households more expensive to use, and yet cost so much that they don't bring any money to the state budget. second, to eliminate the meaningless solar power quotas. it costs households tens of thousands of dollars a year extra to subsidize solar power, and besides, if we eliminate these ridiculous quotas on expensive electricity, coal plants will have sales for coal again, and coal mines won't have to lay off employees, and miners will have their income back. so let's start here.
author.– madam president, the lahore attacks were a vicious and despicable assault on the people of pakistan, and today the european parliament sends its deepest condolences and support to the families of those that have lost their beloved and also to the hundreds of injured and their families. unfortunately, this is only one more deadly attack in a long series, and there are no signs of improvement in the region. it is now urgent for pakistan to face the reality and put an end to religious extremism and all kinds of radicalisation, otherwise we will be here again and again debating the situation in the country. that is why we call today on the pakistani authorities to further engage in the ideological battle with extremism – the fight against terror – but also to tackle social economic exclusion and ensure religious tolerance. let us be clear: pakistan alone will not succeed. we need a strong engagement from all regional actors and the international community to significantly improve counter—terrorism cooperation. finally, we europeans also have an important role to play. that is why we call today on the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, the european external action service and the council to fully engage with the government of pakistan in tackling the threat posed by terrorism and to further assist the government and people of pakistan in continuing their efforts to eradicate terrorism and radicalism.
i welcome this resolution because it condemns the barbaric terrorist attack which has affected christians to a large extent this easter. christians are the most persecuted people in the world. it is therefore good that europe, as represented by the ep, is speaking out in their defence. the purpose of these urgent resolutions is not to report on the human rights or terrorist situation in a country, but to highlight the actual threats facing specific individuals. this objective is fulfilled in paragraph 9 of the resolution, where we draw attention once again to the case of asia bibi, who was sentenced to death not for terrorism but for blasphemy. she's been waiting in prison for years to see if the sentence will be carried out or not. in this context, it is to be hoped that the pakistani government's action plan to improve human rights protection will not remain on paper.
i would like to tell my colleague that as a european politician i ride the metro and stand in line at the airport like any other eu citizen. but i think it is important that the ep stands up against the terror that is being perpetrated in pakistan against persecuted religious groups and that we call on the government of pakistan to be more effective in combating brutal violence. asia bibi was mentioned. we call for the release of asia bibi. it's a repeated challenge. since 2010, asia bibi has been awaiting a death sentence, and we are against this death sentence, because she is a woman who has done nothing but manifested her free faith and right to faith and to her own religion, which is unfortunately persecuted in pakistan.
i am pleased, for myself and for the european people's party, that in the case of these two unscrupulous murders, the honduran government has moved very quickly in the investigation and is doing everything to ensure that the perpetrators are caught, but above all punished. i consider it essential that the honduran government did not rely on itself but invited representatives of the united states, the united nations and the organization of american states to participate in the investigation process. by accepting the help of others, as in this case, the honduran government is very transparent, it will be able to more quickly fully implement all the basic human rights that are unfortunately not being respected. in this case, i have to say that it is extremely important that this kind of thing never happens again and that other activists fighting for human rights in honduras do not pay for their struggle with their own lives.
in writing. ‒ the new eu data protection rules will meld different legal approaches in eu member states into one single european rulebook and will give people back control of their personal information. citizens will be able to decide which of their personal information they want to share. the new regulation includes, among other things, provisions on the right to be forgotten, the ‘clear and affirmative consent’ to the processing of private data by the person concerned, the right to transfer your data to another service provider and the right to know when your data has been hacked. the data protection package also includes a directive on data transfers for policing and judicial purposes which will help authorities transfer valuable personal data efficiently while respecting the fundamental right to privacy.
in writing. i supported the eu's data protection reform, which will allow citizens to take back firm control of their personal data, for example by ensuring easier access to their own personal data, by a clearer definition of the 'right to be forgotten' or by the right to be informed of the misuse of their own personal data. companies will certainly welcome the fact that they will only have to deal with one control authority when they have a one-stop-shop, saving an estimated eur 2.3 billion a year.
in writing. ‒ on the same day as the vote on pnr, it was also important to vote the new eu data protection rules. indeed, this will merge different legal approaches in eu member states into one single european rulebook and will give people back control of their personal information. europeans are more and more careful with the personal information they want to share and rightly so. the new regulation includes, among other things, provisions on the right to be forgotten, the ‘clear and affirmative consent’ to the processing of private data by the person concerned, the right to transfer your data to another service provider and the right to know when your data has been hacked. the data protection package also includes a directive on data transfers for policing and judicial purposes, which will help authorities transfer valuable personal data efficiently while respecting the fundamental right to privacy.
i have supported this report as well as the previous one, and i see it as a package, as a summary. it is undoubtedly a monumental piece of legislation, because this amendment replaces the previous one and removes a number of white spots, removes a number of uncertainties. as regards this particular report, i think that the rules for preventive data protection are set out, and at the same time, of course, the possibility for the state to breach this protection in specific cases. it's always a question of how to set that balance, that equilibrium in the current hectic times. i believe that the priority is to protect the safety of our citizens. i don't want to say that data protection should be broken, but we have to see it in the context of this particular time that we're in. i think the limits that are set there are set right in the balance.
in writing. ‒ on the same day as the vote on pnr, it was also important to vote the new eu data protection rules. indeed, this will merge different legal approaches in eu member states into one single european rulebook and will give people back control of their personal information. europeans are more and more careful with the personal information they want to share and rightly so. the new regulation includes, among other things, provisions on the right to be forgotten, the ‘clear and affirmative consent’ to the processing of private data by the person concerned, the right to transfer your data to another service provider and the right to know when your data has been hacked. the data protection package also includes a directive on data transfers for policing and judicial purposes which will help authorities transfer valuable personal data efficiently while respecting the fundamental right to privacy.
what we are discussing in this pnr topic is also related to the previous one. i would argue that if we really want to protect our freedom and our security, then we must, of course, protect them as a priority and possibly also break through to some extent otherwise protected rights. that's what the right to information means. if these databases exist, if they have passenger data and this data is relevant for investigating or even preventing and predicting certain security threats, then the linking and collection of this data is within the competence of the states and i think it is good that we have supported this report in this way.
i think it is very important that the ep has today approved a directive which will allow the storage and sharing of data on international passenger flights outside the eu. it is not a restriction of freedom, because everyone can still fly wherever they want, but it is really a minimum measure in the fight against international crime. the fact that 461 members finally voted for the directive is a very important and good signal, but i am very surprised that it took five years. i am afraid that if we had not been victims of the terrorism in paris and recently in brussels, this directive would not have been adopted until today. that's not a good example of how we should handle an emergency.
in writing. i voted in favour of the introduction of the so-called passenger name record (pnr) because we in the eu do not yet share enough information between countries, as was unfortunately shown in full view during the recent terrorist attacks. intelligence services lack information on persons who may pose a security risk and, as eu citizens, they are free to move within and outside the union. we have a huge debt here and it's too late to start doing anything today, the bill has been under consideration since 2011! still, i'm glad the pnr was finally accepted.
in writing. the proposed passenger name record (pnr) directive requires the systematic collection, use and retention of data such as contact details, flight dates and timetables or credit card details used for the payment of air tickets, for passengers on flights crossing eu borders. the use of such data should help the security services in the fight against terrorism and other criminal activities, as it would facilitate the identification of potential suspects. i supported this proposal because it is an important tool in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. i consider the report to be balanced with the right of eu citizens to privacy and i also believe that the passenger name record directive is in line with the european court of justice's decision on the data retention directive. i voted against the part concerning the mandatory transfer of data between states because i believe that this sharing should remain on a voluntary basis.
in writing. ‒ the setting up of a european pnr, which will regulate the transfer of pnr data from the airlines to national authorities, as well as the processing of this data, is a very important tool in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. it will oblige airlines to hand national authorities’ passenger data for all flights from third countries to the eu and vice versa. i think it will significantly help eu intelligence services to detect patterns of suspicious behaviour and follow up on those. i hope member states will make full use of exiting provisions on sharing of pnr data between their intelligence services. the recent terrorist attacks showed that no country can make it on its own. i believe this directive is up to the challenge we are facing and provides sufficient safeguards when it comes to data protection.
in writing. i was honestly shocked that as one of the few czech meps i refused to support this proposal and voted against it. despite the heated debate in the plenary, i refused to believe that the european parliament would ignore all current ways of fighting crime and go on to oversee all of them equally. and we haven't even talked about how to improve intelligence and security cooperation. our problem is that one hand doesn't know what the other is doing, and we want to punish all eu citizens for it. we also still don't talk about the fact that the new generation of terrorists is a direct result of the poor integration of foreigners, especially in french-speaking areas. not to mention, one of the brussels attackers was expelled from turkey as an undesirable person, and the other even worked directly in the european parliament over the summer. instead of seeking solutions to these pressing problems, meps today called for greater control over those who are, for the most part, completely innocent and just want to live in peace and quiet. so i regret the outcome of today's vote and hope that those who voted for the motion will draw political responsibility from it when this data is misused.
in writing. i supported the final compromise amendment to the passenger name record directive because i consider it to be an important part of the mosaic of measures that help reduce the risk of serious crime, in particular terrorism. sharing the data that passengers already provide to airlines will allow security services to work together more effectively in detecting the movements of terrorism suspects. passengers need not worry about their personal information. long and complicated negotiations have resulted in the creation of reliable safeguards against their misuse.
in writing. the unprecedented rise in terrorist attacks in europe has opened a long-running debate on so-called passenger name records. the new directive should ensure that data may only be processed for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of terrorism and other serious criminal offences. to prevent any misuse of personal data, all data will be stored for the first six months and then anonymised for a further four and a half years, with very strict rules for access. a clear system for exchanging data between member states and, in particular, strong safeguards for the protection of personal data will also be put in place. it is precisely the concerns about the lack of protection and misuse of passengers' personal data that have blocked this directive from being adopted by parliament in the last few years. the commission has now succeeded in making the vote on the data protection package a joint one. i believe that this directive is an important step towards better protecting all eu citizens and that, thanks to the strong security, sensitive data will not be leaked. the single system advocated by the european parliament should ensure that 28 different registers do not arise, which would not be able to communicate adequately with each other, would be incompatible and, consequently, would not be effective in ensuring security.
in writing. the passenger name record directive requires air carriers to transmit passenger data on aircraft to the authorities of the member state from which the passenger is departing or arriving. i have clearly supported the draft directive, because it is a very important instrument in the fight against terrorism, which can help to detect in good time those linked to the so-called islamic state before they commit terrorist attacks similar to those in paris and brussels. the pnr directive is not self-sustaining, but when combined with increased cooperation between member states' intelligence and police services, it can turn around the often cumbersome efforts to disrupt terrorist cells in eu member states. i am convinced that the resulting form of the directive strikes a delicate balance between enhancing security and protecting personal data. the threat of terrorism is growing and we have no choice but to fight it with all available means, including those that entail the necessary limitations on privacy rights. but i am constantly thinking about whether the terrorists are actually winning.
in writing. i voted today to approve the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the use of passenger name record data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime, as this tool needs to be available at union level in the current situation. this is the introduction of pnr at union level for flights to and from third countries. it is not a miracle cure for all problems, but one of the measures that will help to increase the security of eu citizens. the processing and storage of personal data shall be subject to strict rules on the processing of personal data. all data that can identify an individual will be deleted after six months. these measures are similar to those applied to other similar databases.
in writing. ‒ finally! after months and months of debates, i voted in favour of the setting up of a european pnr, which will regulate the transfer of pnr data from the airlines to national authorities as well as the processing of this data. if it is not a magic tool that will solve the security issues on our continent, i believe nevertheless that this will be an important instrument in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. at a time of a high security threat it will significantly help eu intelligence services to detect patterns of suspicious behaviour and follow up on these.
in writing. ‒ trade secrets and confidential business information are at the core of the competitiveness of any company. today, one company out of every five is a victim of theft of trade secrets every year. difficulties with getting redress against misappropriation of trade secrets need to be addressed. thanks to this directive, trade secrets will share a common definition and same level of protection across all 28 eu member states. this text will allow the creation of a safe, trustworthy and fair environment for european companies, by better securing their know-how while protecting whistle-blowers and journalists’ work. indeed, for the first time, the protection of whistle-blowers is explicitly mentioned in an eu piece of legislation. this is, i hope, a first step towards a european framework for the protection of whistle-blowers.
in writing. i abstained on the final draft because, in its final form, it provides companies with inadequate protection and allows them to sue anyone who uses or discloses information they consider to be trade secrets. this definition is so broad in the draft directive that it covers almost all inside information. the penalty for disclosing such a broadly understood trade secret is high. exceptions for certain groups of persons (employees, journalists, scientists, consumers and whistleblowers) do not ensure sufficient protection. in my view, this directive threatens, inter alia, the ability of journalists to publish information on unfair business practices and the ability of employees to use all their work experience to build their careers.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a proposal for a directive harmonising trade secret legislation across the eu member states. however, the commission was not able to convince me of the need for such an adjustment, for several reasons at the outset. firstly, it was based on a public consultation, but only 386 respondents participated, which is not a particularly high number in the context of the eu as a whole. the experience of experts in this field, including those from the czech republic, has shown that member states can regulate civil law satisfactorily on their own without creating significant obstacles to the functioning of the internal market, and that compliance with the subsidiarity principle can therefore be contested to a minimum. moreover, no major problem with the existing legislation has been identified so far, including that differences in member states' legal systems would constitute a major obstacle to cross-border investment in this area. i also find a number of risks in the proposal such as insufficient protection of journalists' access to information, rather negligible protection of staff mobility, whereby employees may be prevented by their employer from finding work in the same field with another employer for up to 6 years after the end of their employment relationship, and in particular minimal or no protection for whistleblowers. i could not therefore vote for the current version of the draft directive and supported the rejected amendment.
in writing. i supported the proposal for a directive aimed at providing businesses with an adequate level of protection and effective remedies where their trade secrets have been stolen or misused. the protection of trade secrets is particularly important for small, less established businesses, which are much more dependent on trade secrets than larger companies, in part because of the cost of obtaining a patent and protection against misuse. the loss of trade secrets and the possibility of competitive access to key inventions thus represents a huge economic risk for smes. the available data confirm that a new higher level of legal protection is badly needed. a recent commission survey found that in the last ten years, one in five companies has been the victim of at least one attempted theft of a trade secret. according to another study, this number is even increasing: in 2013, 25% of companies reported information theft, compared to 18% in 2012.
‒ although europe is a leader in science and innovation, it lags behind other trading partners such as japan or the us in terms of business engagement in these sectors. as a member of the committee on industry, research and energy, i very much welcome and support the proposal for this directive, which is also part of the wider europe 2020 strategy in which the commission has committed itself to creating an innovation union. this directive is a further step towards creating a better environment for innovation by enterprises and a more favourable environment for new projects. the need to adopt this directive arises from differences in the protection of business secrets between member states. in particular, major shortcomings are found in the definition of a trade secret and the specification of when it is to be protected. many member states also lack rules seeking to protect trade secrets during legal proceedings, which discourages the injured party from seeking redress in court. i therefore see this proposal as a major contribution to addressing these shortcomings at eu level. i would like to emphasise that not only i but the whole s&d group have been strictly vigilant to ensure that whistleblowers and journalists are not violated, as they are clearly excluded from the scope of this law.
in writing. i consider the protection of undisclosed know-how and business information to be an unquestionable right of all kinds of businesses, non-profit research organisations and other communities that invest considerable funds in the acquisition, development and use of such knowledge, and thus the inviolability of business secrets should be guaranteed at the level of protection of private property. at the same time, it is worth noting the introduction of legislation addressing this issue. at a time when we are focusing on promoting sustainable development, poverty reduction, small and medium-sized enterprises, the private sector and its interaction with the public sector, it is necessary to highlight the importance of the protection of trade secrets, as this provides a clear competitive advantage to the holders of such information and breach of this protection would seriously undermine their economy. the protection of trade secrets should be actively addressed at member state level in order to create a high-quality and favourable environment for trade, business, science, research and investment in other sectors in all countries of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of european protection of trade secrets has worried many european union citizens since its adoption last week. the aim of this law is to shield innovative companies against corporate espionage, by protecting their know-how and business information. this is particularly important for smes and start-ups, especially in the digital sector, as they have been suffering most from these unlawful activities and do not necessarily have the financial resources to patent their work or use other intellectual rights. parliament also amended the text initially proposed by the commission to make sure that our fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of the press and of information, the media’s liberty and pluralism, as well as investigative journalism continue being guaranteed. moreover, this is the first time that the protection of whistle-blowers has been included in a legislative text at eu level.
in writing. ‒ our group and myself have voted against the report in order to express disagreement with the lack of transparency and delays in providing of information to the members by the parliament bureau. i do support slight increase in expenditures presented as long as it means reinforcement of security and cyber security measures. on the other hand, i believe the ep should promote financial efficiency and avoid unnecessary spending. that’s why i have supported, for instance, the proposal not to reimburse business flights of meps when flying in europe.
in writing. ‒ i recognise that with the current security situation in brussels, parliament needs further appropriations in order to deal with this. however, any further expenditure should be clearly explained and accompanied by justifications of costs. i agree with parliament’s resolution concerning the internalisation of the chauffeur service. i do not feel it is appropriate to increase the spending on this service and would have concerns if the internalisation led to an increase in costs. finally, i echo the remarks in the resolution with regards to the transparency of the european parliament’s budget and the budgetary process. it is important that elected representatives be given an objective overview of estimated costs as well as comparisons with previous budgetary years. i also fully support the proposal to have a user-friendly version of the budget displayed on parliament’s website.
in writing. on 14 april 2016, we voted in the plenary in strasbourg on the annual estimate of parliament's revenue and expenditure, this time for the financial year 2017. as a group which has long criticised the austerity measures introduced by the so-called troika in some member states, we have tabled several amendments this time too, criticising the continuing over-budgeting of the ep. one positive aspect of the vote was that only one seat of the european parliament was supported. so the criticism of the constant moving between strasbourg and brussels. however, given that our key proposal, which pointed out the absurd situation of a budget increase of 3,4% for the new budget compared to the 2016 budget, which does not take due account of the economic constraints of several member states, was not adopted, i could not support this document. i believe that meps should set an example for citizens who are facing the catastrophic consequences of the economic crisis in many member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, but i firmly opposed the measure concerning the internalisation of the chauffeur service. i do not feel it is appropriate to increase the spending on this service and would have concerns if the internalisation led to an increase in costs. it is premature at this stage and in this condition to consider this evolution of the car service.
in writing. i supported this report, which is much more critical of turkey than in previous years. it points to the continuing problems in respecting fundamental freedoms, freedom of expression, with journalists and academics still imprisoned for their opinions, freedom of assembly, the halting of the peace process with the kurdish minority and the increase in violence in the south-east of the country. i also welcome the fact that the report clearly separates turkey's position in the current refugee crisis settlement from the accession process, which has been underway since 2005. turkey must be made to understand that the eu will not compromise on its criteria, even though its negotiating position may seem more advantageous in the current context.
in writing. - i support the adoption of this annual report on turkey, which focuses on the current state of eu-turkey relations and the internal situation in the country. however, i find it very worrying that turkey, as a candidate country, is not making greater efforts to improve its respect for democracy and the rule of law, despite its declared efforts to open new chapters in the accession negotiations. i find turkey's approach to freedom of expression particularly unacceptable, given the still high number of imprisoned journalists, but also the gradual nationalization of the media and the censorship of the internet. the growing rate of corruption is also a matter of great concern to transparency international. in this context, it is necessary for turkey to adopt the necessary reforms in the areas of fundamental rights, justice, freedom and security. however, i also recognise that turkey is our strategic partner, particularly in the light of the refugee crisis, and that we need to cooperate with it in this area. however, i would like to stress that cooperation in tackling the migration crisis cannot have the effect of any relaxation or reduction of requirements in the negotiations on turkey's accession to the eu or on visa-free travel. other issues of common interest also include the fight against terrorism, the economy, trade and energy. it is therefore necessary to continue to strengthen good neighbourly relations and to intensify structured political dialogues.
in writing. ‒ although i believe that turkey is our strategic partner in nato and in the solution of the migration crisis , i voted against the european parliament's report on the evaluation of the turkish accession process for 2015. the report clearly anticipates turkey's accession to the eu and contains the controversial point that turkish should already become an official language of the eu, even in the context of the reunification of cyprus. the negotiations with turkey must be conducted in such a way as to make it clear that membership is not the end of the negotiations, but rather a privileged partnership. and the mention of turkish as the official language of cyprus and the eu does not belong in this report. this insert made the text, rather technical in nature, a great politician. turkey has its historical, cultural and religious roots which are very different from our european roots. that's why i don't support turkey joining the eu. i support the privileged partnership between our two countries and wish for the best possible relations, including economic and trade. but the report also rightly acknowledges that turkey bears a heavy burden of the refugee crisis and also contains fundamental challenges to turkey, which i agree with: respect for freedom of expression, release of journalists and achieving a peaceful solution to relations with the kurds. the report also calls on turkey to recognise the republic of cyprus and to end the settlement of turkish citizens in the occupied territories of cyprus.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a resolution on the 2015 report on turkey, which is published annually by the european commission as part of the evaluation of the accession process with turkey. the ep, for example, notes its concern about the slowdown in reforms and calls for the rule of law, which is a key part of european values. i personally value turkey as our nato ally and i value turkey's initiatives in addressing the refugee issue. however, i strongly protest the violence that turkey is committing against the kurds. the spiral of mutual hatred is also being developed by the kurdistan workers' party (pkk), whose terror i reject. but often kurdish terror is a response to the terror of the turkish armed forces. the resolution which i voted for deals with the kurdish question and the situation in the south-east of turkey in a balanced way. the ep calls on the turkish government to take responsibility for the resumption of negotiations to find a comprehensive and sustainable solution to the kurdish question and to overcome its reservations about the participation of the kurds in the geneva peace talks. it also expresses concern at the situation in the cities of cizre and sur/diyarbakir and strongly condemns the killing and wounding of civilians. i also think it is premature to establish turkish as the eu's negotiating language in the context of the cyprus reunification negotiations.
in writing. i have today endorsed the 2015 report on turkey, as i believe it is overall balanced and criticizes what is criticizable and appreciates what is appreciated. the report condemns the discrimination and prosecution of journalists or academics who have publicly criticised the actions of the turkish president, highlights the possible use of terrorism to violate civil liberties and rights, and the need for further reforms in the justice sector. the report commends turkey's actions to help alleviate the migration crisis in greece and the assistance provided by turkey to refugees on its territory. as regards visa liberalisation, it is stated that the introduction of visa-free travel is possible only if the conditions previously laid down are fulfilled. that, i believe, is the appropriate attitude.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the turkey progress report for 2015 as it calls on the commission and council to reassess the whole strategy behind the accession process negotiations with ankara. with this vote, i also questioned the opening of new chapters, especially in light of recent domestic developments. it is simply unacceptable to open new chapters when, at the same time, freedom of the media in turkey is being restricted dramatically every day. instead, europe and turkey urgently need an enhanced positive agenda with a focus on energy, foreign policy, civil society dialogue, trade and visa liberalisation.
in writing. ‒ i have decided not to agree with the european parliament's report on turkey. i am aware of the fact that turkey is a strategic partner for the eu, but i am personally deeply concerned about the very slow pace of reforms and the decline in the level of respect for democracy and the rule of law. i see the problem as the questionable independence of the judiciary, the threatened freedom of assembly and expression, or the respect for human rights and the rule of law. turkey is thus steadily moving away from the copenhagen criteria. last but not least, i am also discouraged from supporting the report by the unresolved situation with cyprus. i therefore believe that we should change the debate on turkey's accession to the eu to a debate on a strategic partnership with turkey.
in writing. ‒ albania is a very controversial country in the balkans. high population growth combined with backward infrastructure, a very poor state of industry and agriculture, together with historical concepts of 'greater albania' and a literally tragic state of corruption, complete the image of one of the new nato member states. the report finds it difficult to find positive steps in government action and considers religious tolerance a success. the country has a lot of conditions for tourism development, from lake ohrid through magical mountains with wild, still preserved nature to an interesting coastline, there is also an interesting natural wealth (among other things, deposits of natural asphalt). the tragic state of the judiciary and the application of the new laws adopted is indicated in the report very carefully. i don't think that protecting the rights and freedoms of the lbti community should take precedence over national minority rights and improving relations with neighboring countries. nor can the development of renewable energy sources and environmental protection be given the same importance as the development of employment in industry and agriculture. other attributes of modern society (besides the widespread corruption) are also in the news. unfortunately, large grants to ngos only create another source of potential corruption. the whole picture is made up of a poor state of infrastructure. unfortunately, the report does not inspire historical optimism and rightly emphasises the need for further intensive all-round assistance in implementing the agreed measures. i therefore recommend that you take note of the report.
in writing. ‒ i support the adoption of this report on albania for 2015. i very much welcome the progress made by albania in the reform of the priority areas which were a precondition for the opening of accession negotiations. however, further steps are needed in the areas of justice, public administration, the fight against corruption and organised crime and, last but not least, the rule of law. only then will albania consolidate its transition to democracy. i am confident that the progress made in these areas will be the right impetus to demonstrate albania's willingness to become another member of the european union. i also welcome very much the progress made by albania in the fight against organised crime, which has resulted in a number of successful large-scale law enforcement operations, including in cooperation with authorities in neighbouring countries and eu member states. i also appreciate the efforts of this country to improve relations with serbia and thus to establish good neighbourly relations.
in writing. i supported the adoption of the resolution on the 2015 report on albania, as the text of the report strongly emphasises the need to accelerate in particular the reform of the albanian judicial system. well-established and functioning institutions are a prerequisite for the good functioning of the state in other areas, and the eu is of course interested in albania functioning as a state and being a useful partner for the eu in solving the problems in the strategically important region of the so-called western balkans. the promise of eu membership is the motivation for the establishment of a functioning state, and only such a state can then become an eu member state. in order to fulfil the conditions for membership, assistance is needed for albania and a fair assessment is the first step in that assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on albania, as i agree that considerable progress has been made with respect to the five key priorities required for opening accession negotiations. however, real progress in certain areas is still urgently needed. the full independence of the judicial system from political power, the fight against corruption and organised crime remain the greatest challenges. another notable element is a more democratic political culture, including respect for human rights, and the protection and equal treatment of minorities. moreover, albania will need to make efforts in ensuring true media independence.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report on albania and welcome the progress made by albania in reforming the key priority areas that were a precondition for opening accession negotiations. i firmly believe that the country will continue this established trend and also undertake a fundamental reform of the judiciary. the illegal drug and arms trade remains a major problem for albania, but i personally appreciate the commitment of the albanian government to fight organised crime, which has resulted in a number of successful operations, including in cooperation with authorities in neighbouring countries and eu member states. i also think it is important that the albanian government starts to focus on improving the prospects of young people and starts to invest in the modernisation of education. the aim, in my view, should be to improve the prospects of young people for employment and career development and thus prevent brain drain.
in writing. i would like to start by expressly supporting the decision of the representatives of bosnia and herzegovina to apply for eu membership on 15 february 2016. however, it is still a long way to membership itself. constitutional, legal and political reforms are needed to make bosnia and herzegovina an effective and fully functioning state that promotes inclusion, guarantees equality and democratic representation of all its constituent peoples and citizens, regardless of their ethnicity or religious beliefs. in this context, it is necessary to develop amendments to the electoral law of bosnia and herzegovina in order to lay the foundations for genuinely democratic elections reflecting the sovereignty of the country. as a social democrat, i support a greater involvement of civil society in protecting and promoting the rights of minorities in this country and in strengthening social harmony, tolerance and understanding. i am very pleased that after a long time the 2015 report is optimistic and that the citizens and statesmen of bosnia and herzegovina are steering their country towards the european family.
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption of the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina, which welcomes the first more positive evaluation report of bosnia and herzegovina and also its application for eu membership, submitted on 15 february 2016. the report rightly points out that the first prerequisite for further positive developments is internal stability and the establishment of functional bodies reflecting the administrative and ethnic divisions of the country. the european parliament hereby calls on the responsible officials of bosnia and herzegovina to work towards this objective. only in this way can we continue to work to improve the justice system and to fight organised crime and corruption, objectives which are a primary condition for possible future eu membership.
in writing. ‒ bosnia and herzegovina has made efforts recently and it is now back on the path towards european integration. i welcome its efforts and the submission of its application for eu membership. this is why i voted in favour of this report. however, the country will still need to make significant reforms to make this application successful. the areas that need most improvement are the full implementation and respect for the rule of law, the fight against corruption, and the resolution of socio-economic challenges. moreover, reforming the public administration and getting public institutions to function efficiently in favour of the citizens remain a priority. a major focus should also be set on security, and combatting the phenomenon of returning foreign fighters.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this report of the european parliament. i welcome the fact that on 15 february 2016, bosnia and herzegovina submitted an application for eu membership. however, i am aware of the need to continue constitutional, legal and political reforms that will make bosnia and herzegovina a functioning state guaranteeing equality and democratic representation of all its constituent peoples and citizens, regardless of their ethnicity or religious beliefs. i am convinced that it is also essential to establish a fully functioning and stable judiciary, which is of the utmost importance for ensuring the rule of law in the country and its further progress towards the eu. i personally welcome the active involvement of bosnia and herzegovina in the western balkans education and training platform and its continued participation in the erasmus+ programme, which is very important in the fight against the very high youth unemployment in the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i support measures to prevent energy poverty in european households. however, there are some principles we should keep in mind, such as that these measures should not be abused. that is why i could not agree with that part of the text declaring a right to receive energy without actually paying for it.
in writing. ‒ fighting poverty is important. eu member states have in place the world’s best systems which protect the poorest and allow them, according to certain criteria, to benefit from minimum income schemes. this report, however, goes beyond this objective. it steps into member states’ competences to provide adequate support according to national practices. it also refrains from suggesting measures and incentives to re-integrate the most vulnerable parts of society into the labour market. this is why i decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ given that the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the eu increased from 117 to 122.6 million between 2008 and 2013, i was very pleased to hear from my colleague meszericse, who managed to write a socially sensitive resolution on meeting the poverty reduction targets in the light of the increase in household costs. i think that a person who really cares about the future of the less well-off and socially disadvantaged could not have the slightest problem with this report. the resolution notes, for example, that the privatisation of water services has a negative impact on households suffering or threatened with poverty. i understand that right-wing czech meps may not like it, but on the other hand i don't understand how they can have a problem with the un data on which the information was based. how can anyone have a problem with ending poverty, energy poverty, ensuring access to water and affordable housing? it was therefore a real shock to me to find that the following czech meps voted against the report: dita charanzová, martina dlabajová, petr ježek, petr mach, pavel telička, evžen tošenovský, jan zahradil and jaromír štětina. everyone but my colleague mach voted against their political groups and i don't understand why they were so lectured on a report that dealt with such sensitive issues.
in writing. ‒ it is important to me as a social democrat that the poverty reduction target set out in strategy 2020 is met. as the eu continues to move away from this objective, i welcome this report, which seeks to raise awareness of this issue and at the same time to bridge the gap between social and energy policy in the european debate. the report on the achievement of the poverty reduction target in the light of increasing household costs focuses in particular on the significant shortcomings in the efforts to reduce high costs in poor households. to this end, it proposes targeting existing renewable energy and energy efficiency projects to poor households. reducing the costs for the poor and most vulnerable households and removing obstacles to the efficient use of resources is one of the eu's key pillars in the fight against poverty. i consider it particularly important to target european funds correctly on households in energy poverty. given the significant increase in the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion between 2008 and 2013, more energy needs to be invested in addressing this issue. it is therefore necessary to keep these people in need in mind and to continue to raise awareness and take action to combat poverty.
in writing. the problem of poverty and social exclusion must be actively addressed within the european union as a developed community, and every effort must be made to eliminate this risk and to promote at least minimum standards of living for as large a proportion of the population as possible in each member state. these problems cannot be solved with immediate effect, but maximum effort must be made continuously to create the optimal conditions for reducing the risk of poverty and social exclusion. the key role of individual member states, which should be expected to be willing to contribute to the common objective of the european union and to raise the standard of living of their citizens, is that they should also have their own national strategies to address this problem, which the european commission should fully assist them in developing. the european social and investment funds are undoubtedly an important instrument for poverty reduction, and they are a priori intended to be used precisely to finance investments that lead to social benefits.
in writing. - the poverty rate in the eu is unacceptably high and we should return to the poverty reduction target set in the eu 2020 strategy. statistics show that the majority of household income is spent on housing-related costs, with around 11% of the eu population spending more than 40% of disposable income on housing. the commission and the member states must do more to achieve the poverty reduction targets. i therefore support this report, which contains a number of important recommendations in this area.
in writing. i supported the empl report, which was drawn up on my own initiative and focuses on poverty reduction in the context of rising housing costs and energy poverty. it is unfortunately a reality that many people in the eu live in difficult conditions, and i therefore welcomed a report that seeks to highlight this problem and aims to alleviate it. however, i had reservations about a number of the means that this report offers to achieve its objectives. we are dealing with these issues for the long term, so i am not clear what specifically the proposed poverty reduction summit would bring, other than further attention to this situation. i also do not think that we should at this point call on member states to tackle poverty by increasing benefits, minimum incomes or housing subsidies. there is no simple solution to the problem of poverty. i therefore do not consider such a strategy to be effective and have therefore voted against in a number of the part-sessions on this report.
in writing. the fight against poverty is certainly an important topic which deserves our attention, but i do not see the need to address this issue in an own-initiative report of the european parliament, which is not legally binding and whose discussion has resulted in a set of difficult to grasp, often contradictory and unrealistic recommendations which do not reflect the national specificities and social systems of the individual member states. poverty reduction measures, assistance to the needy and other social issues should be addressed by the member states, through their competent authorities at national, regional and local level, in such a way as to take the utmost account of the different conditions and needs of the groups of citizens concerned in each member state. i therefore did not support the report on the achievement of the poverty reduction target in the context of increasing household costs as a whole and regarded it as an unnecessary and counterproductive interference with the national social policies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ between 2008 and 2013, the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the eu increased from 117 million to 122.6 million. this development runs counter to the strategic objective of the eu that is defined in its europe 2020 strategy and which aims to reduce the number of people in or at risk of poverty and social exclusion by at least 20 million by 2020. nevertheless, i voted against this report as i believe the measures proposed will not help in solving this situation. i also believe that some of the recommendations are purely national competences and that the eu should not legislate on such matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for new innovative ways to mobilise private capital in the fight against global poverty as part of a broader approach to development. estimates of the incremental global spending needed in developing countries reach usd 2.4 trillion per year more than what is currently being spent. i believe the private sector has a crucial role to play in helping people to lift themselves out of poverty. it is the key to sustainable growth and wealth creation. for this purpose, we have to help developing countries create an environment friendly for private initiatives by cutting red tape and improving the general business climate.
in writing. it is tragic how the authors of some reports try to hide the true meaning of the text by omitting one important word. for example, nirj deva, in his motion for a european parliament resolution on the private sector and development, talks about the need to help developing countries, in particular by promoting the development of entrepreneurship. although the text does not say so, it is clear that the focus is on multinational corporations, but this time they will treat the local people and the interests of developing countries with respect and sensitivity. then that people on the left believe in utopia. nirj deva also doesn't mention the word privatization. however, read this part of his text carefully: whereas in developing countries, public-private partnerships are currently being formed for the most part in the energy, infrastructure and telecommunications sectors, while the potential in sectors such as agriculture, water, hygiene, education, green technology, research and innovation, healthcare or property rights remains largely untapped. the whole text gives me the impression that we will once again destroy the natural resources of the developing countries and exploit their human resources to the full, but this time we will not be so evil and greedy. of course, we'll still tell them it's for their own good. i voted against the resolution.
‒ strengthening the role of the private sector is undoubtedly an important activity that will contribute to the development of less developed countries and promote sustainable development. partnerships with the private sector, with full recognition of the commitment to good governance by the private sector, can demonstrate a contribution to reducing poverty and inequality, creating wealth through sustainable investment and promoting human rights, delivering environmental benefits and strengthening the local economy. private investment in transport, access to drinking water, health and education will be key to enhancing living standards and competitiveness and maximising sustainable development. any support for effective private-public cooperation is therefore desirable and deserves full support, while ensuring the transparency of this common approach and the achievement of the european union's development objectives. in the future, maximum efforts will also have to be made to eliminate all the obstacles that smes and micro-enterprises unfortunately continue to face. cooperation between the private and public sectors in agriculture needs to be treated with great caution, as this partnership will require high-quality and readable legislation setting clear rules.
in writing. ‒ the role of the public sector can be fundamental to the achievement of sustainable development goals (sdgs), and therefore needs to be encouraged. this is why i voted in favour of this text. the private sector generates 90% of jobs and income in developing countries. investing in the development of the private sector can lessen dependency on aid, reduce poverty, increase tax income and create sustainable wealth. the support of local micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (smmes) should particularly be encouraged, to unleash their wealth creation potential. in fact, although they represent 60% of jobs in the developing countries, they are often burdened by heavy regulation, lack legal protection and frequently operate in the informal economy due their small size. however, support of the private sector must be carried out while making sure that it is properly regulated, transparent and respectful of all labour laws, and that the support is carried out without distorting local market conditions
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am fully aware of the potential of the private sector to achieve sustainable development in the long term. i personally believe that the private and public sectors work most effectively when they work together to create a healthy environment for investment, business activity and to build the foundations for economic growth. eu countries should continue to support developing countries in raising their own resources, for example through national tax systems, and in combating illicit financial flows and corruption, which cost them several hundred billion euros a year. in this respect, i consider it necessary to establish effective international rules against tax avoidance and tax evasion.
i would like to start by saying that the migration crisis is really a matter for all eu countries, that is understandable. it is a big mistake for some eu leaders to think that they can avoid this migration crisis by any means. i think we all bear the consequences of their decisions. i was very interested in the commissioner's speech because the figures she gave are consistent with other independent studies and i think it is a great pity that the representatives of some of the groups on my right in particular are not represented at all. i think if they're calling for the eu borders to be closed, they should hear these numbers. they should listen to what the commissioner has said, and what independent studies have said, in the case of the schengen border closure, as they call it. i think the loss of the main achievement of european integration - the free movement of people and goods - may be truly irreplaceable. the creation of an area without internal borders, allowing the free movement of people and goods, has brought considerable benefits to businesses not only in europe but also, of course, in their relations with third countries. schengen is thus one of the main means by which european citizens can enjoy their freedoms and the internal market thrives and develops. unfortunately, the impact of the wave of migration, which the eu as a whole has not yet been able to cope with, is putting this system at risk. and with it, of course, the concept of transportation based on this system. border controls and traffic restrictions negatively affect transport both by road and rail, trade and transport as a whole. i therefore see it as a top priority for the transport sector to tackle these problems. our first objective must be to eliminate the serious deficiencies at the external borders. the next challenge is to keep schengen functioning, since the loss would be really huge, as the commissioner has also indicated.
the question posed by the blue card. i disagree with mrs morvai on many occasions, and this time i couldn't stand it any longer, and i want to ask you, madam member, what exactly is your basis for the view that the closure of schengen borders will not have an impact on eu countries? if you ask the commissioner how they came to these amounts, i ask you, are you of the clear opinion that there will be no financial impact on the eu countries?
member of the commission. thank you very much for this interesting exchange of views and ideas. it is true that the commission is very busy dealing with the refugee crisis - that is one of its top priorities - and doing everything in its power to act preventively against terrorism. but we are here today to discuss the impact of the migration crisis on transport, and so let us concentrate on that. the introduction of border controls - that is very clear - must be temporary. the end of this year, in eight months' time, must be the end of this. in my introduction i referred to the road map drawn up by the commission and presented to you on 4 march this year, a road map for the return of schengen to normal operation. we have discussed this at great length and our starting point is - a starting point shared by this hemisphere as well - that schengen is one of the most important successes of european integration, that we should cherish it and that we will therefore do everything possible to ensure that schengen functions normally again. we know - and this is also stated in the communication - that the cost of not respecting schengen, the cost of losing schengen, would be enormous in many ways, both in terms of freedom and in terms of finance. so our goal is: as soon as possible, back to normal, as soon as possible, lift the border controls. we have also set out in that roadmap the conditions that must be met and what the member states must do to make this possible. the commission will monitor the situation closely, both at the internal and external borders. i assure you that we will! estimates of costs and impacts have been made. these amount to between a certain amount and a much higher amount (both much too high), but we will continue to analyse the data available to us and to analyse new information to give us a fuller picture of the potential costs for europe. whatever the cost, our aim is to bring schengen back to normal. we know that the costs to the transport sector and to the member states are very high, that we are all very much affected by this - although of course it is not just the transport sector that is affected. but turning our backs on schengen and leaving everything as it is will also entail very high costs for the whole economy, for the citizens of europe and for the functioning of crossborder work and other things. i therefore hope that we will work together to put an end to this crisis and restore our internal market and the free movement of goods, services, capital and people, especially in the interests of the transport sector. of course, all the members of the commission, and of course in particular commissioner bulc, who is responsible for transport, will continue to play our coordinating role, also between the member states, because that is of course very important. thank you for this interesting debate.
member of the commission.– mr president, connected, cooperative and automated driving offer great potential to improve road safety, traffic flows and the overall efficiency and environmental performance of the transport system. there is a need to create more synergies and to enhance cooperation at european level. the amsterdam declaration endorsed this morning in the framework of the transport informal council is very clear on this point and sees this as a prerequisite for the elaboration of a european strategy on connected and automated driving. the fact that this council is happening today in amsterdam is the reason why my colleague, violeta bulc, is not here. she is there, so you have to deal with me this afternoon. the commission has launched a dialogue with member states, public authorities and private stakeholders through the cooperative intelligent transport systems platform – the c-its platform – to the gear 2030 and the high-level round table between the telecoms and automotive industries, chaired by commissioner oettinger. with a strong spirit of partnership, the commission is working towards a shared european strategy on connected and automated driving as part of the energy union, research, innovation and competitiveness strategy. research and innovation are thus also being addressed. vehicle automation technology has developed very quickly, from increasingly sophisticated driver assistance systems intended to improve road safety, and indeed driving comfort, already on the market, to fully automated vehicles that could participate in normal traffic in the short and medium term. however, safety must never be compromised. i want to be very clear that the process towards automation should ensure that it will provide clear road safety benefits by removing, not adding, risks. the first question referred to the challenges posed by automation. the existing legal framework defining the rules of behaviour for road users will need to be adapted to allow automated driving and to ensure safety for all road users. this includes a review not only of the international conventions on road traffic, in particular the vienna road traffic convention, but also the member states’ highway codes. work in the united nations economic commission for europe is already under way on the international framework. it is crucial to ensure the highest possible level of security of communications and the protection of data and privacy at all times. these are indeed key elements for raising public acceptance. several initiatives are taking place on security in the framework of the digital single market strategy in terms of privacy under the new general data protection regulation. there will be one data protection law applicable across the european union. data protection has been addressed also in the framework of the so-called c-its platform. concerning liability, the gear 2030 initiative on highly automated vehicles is now taking up the issue with the aim to understand if and what is changing with further levels of automation. then we have road construction. road construction will probably be affected if we want to maximise benefits from this new technology. these aspects are being assessed also in the c-its platform, and the results will be fed into the gear 2030 initiative. also, the upgrade of the relevant cellular communication networks is being discussed in the context of the relevant high-level round table on connected and automated driving. finally, a few remarks regarding testing and inspection procedures and vehicle-type approval. highly—automated vehicles can, to a large extent, already comply with conventional-type approval requirements, for instance general construction and emissions. discussions are also ongoing at unece level with a view to updating the relevant regulations in this are also.
i have to say that i am a little disappointed that such an important item has been postponed until thursday afternoon, but there is nothing we can do about it, we have to accept that. i also regret that the group of marine le pen and the other very sceptical factions did not agree on this point or on the migration point. i guess that's something we have to deal with, too. i agree with the author of this question, mr ertug, on a number of points. the automotive industry is truly on the threshold of a new era. it's like going from a balloon into an airplane, into the cockpit of an airplane. car manufacturers, working with computer experts, are testing the first generation of fully autonomous vehicles, which are expected to enter the roads in the coming years. this is truly a historic moment. but as the latest available data show, the journey will not be entirely easy. according to recently released statistics from the state of california it is one of the few states in the world that allows the testing of autonomous vehicles in 15 months of testing, test drivers reported almost 3,000 failures. for example, mercedes-benz alone had to report 1,051 cases of autonomous driving failure, and it only operates 2 vehicles in california. these are indeed extremely serious issues and the road safety aspect cannot be overlooked in this context. it is clear that in certain cases, even with all the technical progress, such an accident of an autonomous vehicle cannot be prevented in normal road traffic. then there is the question of responsibility for the driving of the vehicle itself, but also for the consequences associated with such driving. i would therefore also like to ask the commission: how specifically should the current liability legislation be changed? i have noted from the commissioner that she has mentioned the need to amend the 1968 vienna convention on road traffic, which i certainly agree with.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i would say to the commissioner that we have heard all about the wonders of what automated driving can bring. i personally am very much looking forward to seeing my car fully connected and self-driving in the future but, as legislators, for all the excitement, there are so many questions that must not be overlooked in the design of our regulations. how do we best adapt our industrial policy? how do we ensure that these vehicles are safe, both on the road and from cyber—attacks? how do we protect consumer rights while sharing more data? how do we deal with liability? the issues are so complex that we cannot deal with them alone. our traditional car industry must be part of any dialogue as we create a harmonised legal framework which is much larger than the technical aspects, and we must do this in partnership with all stakeholders. the industry itself, however, must proactively think about issues like privacy, cyber security, data management, road management and new business models. we need an automotive industry that is fully aware that it has to change and update quickly. if it does not, non-eu companies, including non-car companies, will set the standards. the future of connected vehicles, our business growth and our economies as a whole will be based on how we use technologies to improve citizens’ experiences and their lives in general. for all these reasons, we can make the driving experience better and our towns safer. let us do it, but let us do it now.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, mr president of the european court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, today we are about to adopt one of the most important documents on the management of the common financial resources at european union level. we will express our views on the way the european commission used the means at its disposal to implement its policies in 2014. the discharge process is on the agenda of the european parliament every spring, and the rapporteurs regularly present and defend their reports, as i did this year. yet i tried to bring new perspectives and new themes into the routine process. this is because the new economic paradigm and the requirements for it present a good opportunity to make certain changes in the established standards of control of the european commission's management. these changes are not self-perpetuating. on the contrary, their sole purpose is to assess whether the eu budgetary resources are not only spent in accordance with the formal and legislative rules but also contribute to the real effects and impacts of the economic, social and environmental development of the european union. are we able to allocate resources to the areas where this effect is greatest? are we able to identify new european priorities or are we still living in the grip of the stereotypes of the past decades? and whether we can adequately measure and evaluate these effects and draw lessons from them to shape new policy strategies. i've been devoting the process of change towards performance culture for most of the past year. i believe that many of the questions above cannot be answered in the affirmative if we are to remain objective. although economic developments and investment activity in europe are now experiencing a modest recovery and the unemployment rate is declining, the effects of the crisis have not yet been fully overcome. and this is precisely what justifies us in thinking differently in the field of budgetary policy, in particular in order to be better able to face the next crises that will inevitably arise. the european union budget should be equipped with control tools and mechanisms so that european funds are not misused and that every euro spent can be effectively evaluated. we are not alone in the european parliament in this effort to boost efficiency and simplify the budget. the same approach is also stated by the european court of auditors in its annual report for 2014. it is also confirmed by the initiatives of the european commission and the role of the council, especially during the current dutch presidency. the absolution must be, in my view, a logical political document, a standard procedure, not a tool for the unsystematic prosecution of the guilty, only selected and exposed at random. let us focus on how to identify and describe the manifestations of possible mismanagement of 1% of the european union's gdp, and in particular let us seek together solutions to this situation. merely drawing attention to some of the suspects, without suggesting measures and solutions, is pointless. i am aware that political compromises are needed to promote new elements. i nevertheless maintain that discharge should be as objective and competent as possible and should not become a tool for political struggle or settling accounts between member states. i know it will take years to implement changes in the way we do things. but i am convinced that if the european parliament did not follow this trend, it would become isolated and out of the mainstream of the budgetary policy of the european union in its quest for a result-oriented and performance-oriented budget of the european union. and that's certainly not what any of us want. i thank you all for your professional approach, i thank my team, the secretariat of the committee on budgetary control, all my shadow rapporteurs, the court of auditors, the entire european commission headed by vice-president georgieva, and you, colleagues, for the utmost objectivity in your assessment of my report.
for the alde group. madam president, i speak now as the shadow rapporteur on the discharge report for the european development fund. i'd like to thank all the shadow reporters and the lady reporter, claudia schmidt, for their good work and cooperation. allow me to express my satisfaction that a number of new elements that i introduced in the 2013 edf report are becoming an integral part of the discharge text. whether it is a result and performance view or drawing conclusions and formulating recommendations for the next period. in the field of development aid, too, economic criteria and a sense of reality must be respected. however, i admit that this reality is constantly changing, and quite significantly, also in the portfolio of activities of the european development fund. as i suggest in the case of discharge for the european commission, the european development fund should also assess whether its resources are focused on real priorities. in my view, there are two main areas at the moment: the issue of migration and protection against terrorist risks. failure to address them may jeopardise all further development activities supported by the european union. limited resources must be allocated in a targeted way to where the greatest benefit for the countries to which they are destined is identified, and at the same time to the benefit of europe, its integrity, its development and its future existence based on the values on which european integration was founded almost 70 years ago. let us preserve these values for future generations, for their importance does not diminish with time, but rather grows.
first of all, madam president, i would like to thank mrs ingeborg grässle and the other members of the committee on budgetary control for the excellent work they have done on the reports. i think we've really done a tremendous job and the budgetary control committee is becoming one of the most respected committees in this parliament. i would like to mention two things here. i would first mention the european external action service, to which we address a number of recommendations. it's directly for mrs. frederica mogherini. firstly, the structure of the service. i think that this structure is too complex, too confusing and therefore counterproductive. we criticise that the areas where decisions should be taken quickly and clearly are cumbersome, lack analysis and are too slow. we also criticize the recruitment process, which is long, drawn out. it also criticises the way in which diplomats are selected who are only from the old member countries and not from the new member countries. we also find the functioning of the representative offices problematic. the second part of my speech is devoted to criticism of the european council, which has long refused to participate in the discharge. i would therefore like the european commission to help us find a solution to this longstanding problem of the european council and the council not being given discharge for lack of cooperation.
madam president, i would like to mention a few aspects of the discharge for the joint undertakings of the european union. this year, we're deciding on seven discharge grants to businesses. despite some minor differences with the rapporteur, our position has converged on five of them. these are clean sky, ecsel, imi, sesar and iter. iter is undoubtedly the most ambitious energy project in the world, involving not only the european union but also other very important countries. the european union, through fusion for energy, is one of the most important partners. these countries are working together to build the tokamak, a precursor to the commercial use of fusion energy. iter stands out, and stands out, logically among other undertakings, with its budget, unique concept and technological sophistication. i am aware of the current problems and unrealistic plans regarding the budget. on the other hand, i believe that at this moment, new leadership can bring new solutions, a new plan of action and a new approach. i hope that will be assessed in september when the discharge is given.
i have signed the discharge for the implementation of the european parliament's budget for 2014 to support the lux film price and its subsequent financing. the commission notes that the costs of organising the film prize decreased to eur 391 500 in 2014. these are the means for film evaluation, subtitling, copying and also for the closing ceremony. the amount of the appropriations for the promotion of this prize was increased by eur 193 000 in 2014. this promotion is linked to the screening in all twenty-eight countries and more than thirty-five thousand viewers attended this screening in 2014, free of charge. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the following undertakings: it should be noted that these funds are used to promote european film production on subjects that promote european values.
madam president, i am particularly pleased that the shadow rapporteurs' work has led to the 'adding pepper to the report' - a quote from our shadow rapporteur, whom i greatly respect. i would like to focus on the issue of late payments. it appears in several places in this report. in my view, it is precisely the delay in the mobilisation of the multiannual funds under cohesion policy that is rightly criticised in the discharge, but it is also important to say that the delay in direct payments or simply payments to which beneficiaries are entitled is also a serious threat to the credibility and credibility of the european union as a whole. i don't think that should be happening. we have repeatedly criticised this in the committee on regional development and i am very pleased that this has been taken into account in this report in several other areas, not only in cohesion policies but also, for example, in humanitarian organisations and in the payment of various cultural projects.
president of the court of auditors.– madam president, i would like to thank everyone for the kind words about the work done by the court of auditors. that is encouraging for us. we welcome all the suggestions for future audit work in the different discharge reports. i would like to note in particular the requests for the court to continue to develop its approach to auditing the commission’s reporting on the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. we take note of the remarks on joint undertakings, on the need for more information, but i would like to say that the recommendation on the discharge report, which suggests that the issue of the error rates is a methodological problem to be solved between the court and the commission, probably does not move us forward. what we need to do is address the root causes of the problems. i welcome the reference from vice president georgieva to matters of risk. those who draft laws, those who agree on the projects and programmes to be funded, have to acknowledge, from the beginning, how much risk they want to take. do not ask the auditors to do that. the auditors have to identify whether or not there is a material level of error. so we take good note, but if you look on this as a methodological issue to be solved between the manager and the auditor, we will not make progress. i think the point is that we do indeed need to develop a new approach on european union spending and investment for the future. this is a challenge we, as a new institution, share with all the european institutions. we need to work together on that, and now. i have already underlined three major lines of action where the court is very willing to contribute. we very much welcome the council invitation to contribute to the mid term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff). we very much welcome the opportunity to provide our views and opinions on the review of the financial regulation. we think that this is a good moment to streamline this for the future, but also to develop a budget more focused on results. we are contributing in that capacity as an auditor already. so be sure that for our part we look forward to contributing to this interinstitutional dialogue, which needs to produce concrete action that will make it possible in the future to have better financial management and accountability for all european citizens.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i took two minutes more in my opening speech, and i will pay that back now in my closing remarks by being short and focused. i have just three points to make. one: an expression of gratitude for the debate we had today, for the issues that have been raised on the policy side, as well as a very specific request to pay attention – and we will indeed reflect very carefully upon, and respond to, the comments that have been made today. more importantly, two: we are already working on the follow up to the 2014 budget discharge resolutions and we will report back after the summer break this year. three: listening to the comments that have been made, of course we have to continue looking at preventive action and corrective action on the side of errors. that is very important. this work has to continue. we will continue to work with the court of auditors on how we can best integrate what we have learned from its reports and from our own work. president caldeira would not understand it if i did not bring it up, but we will continue to look at the issue of the multi annuality of our programmes. we want to be prudent in making sure that we can, over a longer period of time, achieve the best possible results on the side of errors. but at the same time we are very grateful to those who have spoken and recognised there are things that member states and we in the commission do well. and, of course, the court of auditors recognises in its reports that we can also draw on what we do well, especially on the policy side, and use it to generate more replication of good practice, making sure that good practice is the normal practice – i would even say best practice should be the normal practice. our commitment to engage is very strong – to engage with parliament, with the court of auditors, with the council – and you can count on me and my staff, on all of us, to be available for this discussion to be a continuous process and not a one off in this house.
reporting for the committee on budgetary control, mr prodi, said that the commission had not yet taken a decision on the budget. i hope that tomorrow's vote will enable me to meet this professional challenge and successfully complete the process of granting discharge to the european commission. i also thank my whole team, the secretariat of the committee on budgetary control, who have been very active in our work together and have been a great support to me throughout. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs of the committee on budgetary control on the other discharge reports and thank the drafters of opinions of the other committees. the cooperation with the other expert committees was really excellent. of course, i thank commissioner georgieva and i thank the president of the european court of auditors. my efforts in working on the discharge of the european commission were to ensure maximum transparency, objectivity and a project approach in its preparation, respecting the financial interest of the whole european union and its citizens. i am pleased that this approach has been reflected in the final text which you will be voting on tomorrow. i would also appreciate it if it were followed up by the preparation of a new discharge report for 2015, which will start in just a few months. i would be pleased if the recommendations in the field of the budgetary policy of the european union were to be reflected in the work of the committee on budgetary control and also to influence the work of other parliamentary committees and institutions of the european union. in conclusion, i would suggest that we really strengthen the dialogue between our institutions, that we insist on follow-up, that we create and actively work in working groups for a budget focused on results. and they also found the possibility of continuous control of the european budget, in particular the management of the european commission, as is the case, for example, in the european semester process, which is based on year-round cooperation between the main institutions of the european union and has fixed deadlines for the fulfilment of these obligations. this is the only way to avoid repeated problems in the future with the misuse of european funds and causes that do not contribute to the credibility of european governance.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, last october, my gue/ngl group in the plenary tabled an item on the us-led attack on the msf hospital in kunduz, afghanistan. we all expressed our condolences and concern at this tragic and cowardly event. but what has happened since then? the americans investigated the whole thing internally and the affair was silenced as well as the destroyed hospital and the voices of the patients and doctors in it. since then, msf has been asking for the international humanitarian commission to investigate. this mechanism, which is only intended to gather as much information as possible about the incident, was introduced as early as 1991 by the additional protocols to the geneva convention and has never, i repeat, never been used in practice. so, the tool for information concentration exists, but the signatories are still afraid to apply it, lest they create a precedent. so it could also mean that we all just accept that hospitals are going to be destroyed once in a while? i hope not. because unless we investigate the attacks and clearly identify the culprits, hospitals will continue to be destroyed. like we see in yemen and syria today. i am not satisfied with the council's response to monitor the situation and take action. i'd like to see a solution, because only deterring those who cause it can mean they never do it again.
madam president, i am particularly pleased to hear from my colleague, mr howit, the speaker. there are many such attacks, and i would hate to see the kabul attack be the only one that stands out. for example, we didn't even talk about the russian ones that happened last year. on 15 february 2016, about 50 people were killed in a russian airstrike in the maarat an-nouman area. on 21 october 2015, 13 people were killed in sarmin. i regret every victim, every unjustified raid that actually violates the norms of international law. but i think that, in view of the resolution that has just been tabled by my colleagues from the left group, a certain objective balance would be appropriate, because if this resolution is proposed in a unilateral direction, we are of course against it, and it would be good if this report were balanced as it is in the original proposal, not as the amendments proposed by my colleagues from the gue/ngl group.
madam reporter, thank you for a very good report. i understand that you had to be diplomatic in writing it, and so you criticised the commission and the council only mildly. but maybe you were too gentle. i personally think that the european parliament is doing a great job in the field of transparency. i am not saying that there is no room for improvement, but i fully agree with the criticism of the lack of transparency that diem 25 is directing primarily to the council and the commission. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive. take, for example, the ttip documents, which have been mentioned several times today. now we have another battle to fight. we will ask the commission for evidence for the emis committee of inquiry and i hope the commission will cooperate willingly, but i cannot hide my concern. i would certainly like to join the call on the commission to submit without further delay its proposal for a central mandatory register of lobbyists applicable to all the institutions and bodies of the european union. for example, in the ttip negotiations, lobbyists were more present than non-profit organisations.
author.– mr president, the brussels iia regulation has undoubtedly been a successful union instrument that has benefited eu citizens through the creation of a wide—ranging scheme of jurisdictional recognition and enforcement rules in matrimonial and parental responsibility cases. that being said, we are all aware of its shortcomings when it comes to child abduction cases. in this respect it appears that the regulation has been overtaken by events – that is to say, the growing number of transnational family dissolution proceedings, which has been aggravated by the increasing divergences between the legal rules applicable to family dissolutions. on top of this, family law, which is a competence of the member states, has been fragmented into different types of family models: marriage; registered partnership; simple cohabitation. as a result, it appears that society has moved on, and that the regulation has been left behind. members of the european parliament are confronted with the shortcomings of brussels iia on a regular basis, not only in the committee on petitions, but also in correspondence and contacts with citizens who are at the end of their tether. we are all aware that the law is a blunt instrument when it comes to family questions, that judges and lawyers are not necessarily the persons best equipped to deal with such questions and that the courts are not necessarily the best or most cost—effective forum. we need to reflect on this and try to identify ways to help our citizens in these painful moments of their lives, while safeguarding and promoting the best interests of the child. the continuing success of the regulation will depend on its successful and targeted revision. now that the main areas of complexity and malfunction have been identified, it is a high time that appropriate action is taken to tackle the last remaining insufficiencies.
the question posed by the blue card. madam member, you mentioned the case of your citizens being deprived of their children in a member state, namely the united kingdom. but your citizens are also increasingly being taken away from their children in a non-eu country, and that is norway. do you think that the european union is sufficiently protecting the interests of european union citizens and children who are taken away from outside the member states of the european union?
commissioner, i'm very pleased that we agree on what is in the best interest of the child. this is undoubtedly living with his parents, and if that is not possible, then being placed in the care of the extended biological family, and then only in alternative family care, or institutional care. the european union is providing ever more scope for mobility of individuals and families. it is therefore necessary that judicial decisions on children are also addressed and coordinated at european level, and that minimum standards for decision-making are established where appropriate. i therefore strongly support the rapporteur's proposal, which i regard as very positive. we call for improved judicial cooperation between the member states. we call for the creation of a platform to provide assistance to eu citizens in dealing with cross-border family issues. i consider prevention to be essential, and that is why we also call for improvements in the work of social protection and social services. we are aware of the crucial role of the member states and therefore call on them to take a number of measures, such as specialised chambers, to improve the conduct of judicial proceedings. of course, in the case of foster care, sibling relationships should be given priority. our question also indirectly relates to the protection of the best interests of children whose parents, who are citizens of the european union, are deprived of parental rights outside the european union and whose children are subject to decisions contrary to the convention on the rights of the child. i believe that this situation can be reversed and corrected.
dear commissioner, when i was studying in rome, i received a card from a bishop in chicago that said, "every child that is born is good news from god that we have not yet finished entertaining him". and i think there's a little bit of truth in that. there's been a lot of talk about this. i want to mention one cause. it's the eva michalak case that's been going on in norway for five years. five years ago in norway, a child was taken from its mother and father on suspicion of abuse. that suspicion, commissioner, has not been proven. it was never proven! and the child has not been returned until today. eva michalák and her children are citizens of the european union. and what has the european union done to get these children back to their mothers? why does the european union allow children to be adopted in norway? i think these are crimes that our children will never forget, and crimes that we must address immediately.
in writing. domestic and care work employs a growing number of people in the european union and globally, and we can expect that to increase as our population ages. nine out of ten of these are women. they often work directly in the homes of the employer where they live. however, their employers must be aware that they must respect their labour and social rights, such as working hours or privacy requirements. in addition, their work is often unreported, which complicates their protection and, among other things, puts them at high risk of poverty in old age. the international labour organisation's international convention on domestic workers also ensures that basic labour standards are respected. i would therefore like to support mrs kuneva's report and call on those states which have not yet done so to ratify the convention. turning a blind eye to the problem of domestic workers and carers is very short-sighted and fails to address the situation of people who are in a vulnerable position in the labour market and whose importance to society will continue to increase.
mr. chairman, as always, i'm the last one here today. but the subject i want to talk about is very important. it's a topic that's very often overlooked in debates about migration, and i personally think it's very important. it's the mental health of refugees. refugees fleeing the war zone in syria and seeing their loved ones die have experienced many of the traumas caused by either the islamic state or the assad regime. they are exposed to other traumas in europe and there is no doubt that these traumas have manifested and will manifest in their lives. that is why i would like to challenge you, commissioner, because you are the only one here, to stop dealing with pseudo-problems like the debates on quotas, but to go further and start dealing with problems that are real. one of these problems is precisely the problems refugees have in integrating into european society.
mr president, i believe that the european union's agreement with turkey operates within the limits of the possibilities and conditions available to the european union and which turkey is also able to fulfil. it is certainly an opportunity for the european union to buy time and actually create external border protection so that we can adopt the necessary legislation for the coast and border guard. in this case too, the european parliament and the prime ministers have the decision in their hands and we will decide on the form of external border protection. i am also pleased that vice-president timmermans has agreed that the introduction of a visa-free policy for turkey is not unconditional and that the commission is examining whether the conditions are met on the turkish side and only if they are met will visa-free travel be possible. i think we should also support the proposal by the group of the european people's party to examine the possibility of a rescue brake, that is to say, to suspend visa-free travel.
in writing. relations between turkey and the countries of europe have always been very delicate. at certain historical stages, turkey reached into central europe, and only after 1683, when the turks failed to conquer vienna thanks to the heroism of czech soldiers of the austrian army, did its rulers' efforts to demand payments from their neighbors, today's eu member states, cease. these payments were made in various ways and were all made as gifts to the sultan through the ambassadors of individual countries, especially austria. this reminiscence, like any comparison, has its weaknesses, but it does not change turkey's demand: pay or else ...!! it would be naive to have illusions about the democratic character and future direction of the current regime of president erdogan, on the other hand, despite the ongoing civil war against the kurds and the progressive islamization, turkey is still a relatively democratic state compared to other countries in north africa and the middle east. yet the eu's payment of €6 billion covered by government terms is not a happy thought. smuggling immigrants into eu countries has become one of the most prosperous businesses on a par with drug trafficking and distribution. so the question is, what can really solve this problem? neither answer will be satisfactory, but paying tribute to anyone is not going to solve any problems. the real solution is to stabilize the countries that the eu and us states have worked so hard to break up.
in the last parliamentary term we spent a lot of energy on the debate on trans-european corridors and cross-border interconnection of transport networks. i am therefore pleased that the conditions for the development of rail transport, its interoperability and safety across europe are now also materializing. i would like to commend the work of the reporters, and in particular my colleague, roberts ziele. the agreed technical pillar of the fourth railway package brings a number of positive steps, such as reducing red tape and simplifying the procedures for the approval of rolling stock. i would like to draw attention to one important technical aspect. the european rail traffic management system will require accurate navigation and timing signals. this will only be possible through the european satellite navigation systems galileo and egnos.
in writing. today we voted on the possibility of croatia's accession to the eu-georgia common aviation area agreement. this agreement was negotiated on the basis of a council decision of june 2009 and was signed in december 2010. this is the first comprehensive air transport agreement with a major eu air transport partner from the caucasus region. croatia acceded to the eu on 1 july 2013 and has undertaken to accede to agreements concluded or signed by member states and the union. the european parliament hereby gives its consent to the accession of croatia to the agreement. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to have taken the decision to conclude a protocol between croatia and georgia, which is part of the negotiated air transport agreement. the agreement with georgia was the first agreement of its kind signed in the field of air transport in the caucasus region. i believe that this protocol will make a significant contribution to the further expansion of the common aviation area between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours, and will thus allow croatia to become more involved in this area.
in writing. ‒ i supported the council decision on the eu-georgia common aviation agreement which aims to allow croatia to be part of the agreement. this agreement was the first comprehensive aviation agreement with a partner country in the caucasus region and was a big step for a common eu external aviation policy. while the commission is now seeking a new mandate to negotiate further aviation agreements, i consider it to be of the utmost importance to stabilise those we already have within our 28 member states.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of international treaties being concluded between states. however, i didn't want to interfere with this deal and i stayed.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to adopt the decision to conclude the protocol granting croatia the additional benefits of full membership of the european union. this protocol, which is an extension of the existing euro-mediterranean aviation agreement, will contribute to further expanding the common airspace between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours. croatia will thus become the next party to this eu-israel agreement. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 1 january 2013 and that the agreement with ryanair was signed on 1 january 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision to amend the existing aviation agreement between israel and the eu in order to take account of the accession to the eu of croatia. there is no substantial change to the agreement but it will allow all 28 member states to be on an equal footing when opening air routes with israel. as the commission hopes to sign new aviation agreements with other partners, it is extremely important that we can guarantee the coherence of our eu internal aviation market.
in writing. ‒ today we voted to accede croatia to the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. the convention was adopted in 1997 and aims to enable judicial authorities to cooperate with each other in preventing and detecting infringements of national customs legislation. signatories to this convention may request assistance or cooperation in the customs field in various forms, such as personnel and organisational support. cross-border cooperation is most often carried out for the purpose of investigating and prosecuting offences in the form of illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, hazardous and toxic waste, but also cultural goods or goods liable to taxation in order to avoid the fulfilment of the tax obligation. the european parliament hereby gives its consent to the accession of croatia to this convention, which i supported in my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a council decision concerning the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997, drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union, on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. the act of accession of the republic of croatia contains a simplified system for croatia’s accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 teu (previously article k.3 teu) or article 293 ec. the act of accession simply provides that croatia accedes to the conventions and protocols by virtue of the act.
in writing. ‒ since this is not a matter relating to the performance of the duties of an mep, i leave it to the polish authorities to decide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of waiving the parliamentary immunity of mep bolesław g. piecha. this is not with the intention of damaging mr piecha’s political activity nor has it anything to do with his political opinions.
‒ i consider this proposal to be a step forward in the area of children's and parents' rights. in particular, information on the removal of children in a foreign country, the reunification of children and parents or the separation of siblings. although there are some points in the resolution with which i disagree, such as the european commission providing or co-funding the training of social workers, i generally support the idea of greater protection for children and parents.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a motion for a resolution which deals with a very important issue, namely the protection of children's interests across the eu. the resolution also points out that the economic crisis and the associated cuts in social sphere are making life more difficult for families and therefore for children. we call for the establishment of a uniform system of child protection in all 28 eu member states. we also call on the commission to launch a review of the brussels ii regulation, as a number of shortcomings have emerged and with increased intra-eu mobility there is also an increase in cross-border disputes, including adoption cases. the european parliament resolution is a response to several petitions sent to the committee on petitions by citizens who are calling for clearer and more effective rules to ensure the highest possible level of protection for children in the eu. i voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support strengthening the protection of the child's best interests across the eu. child custody issues have a profound impact on the lives of individuals and on society as a whole. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of cases of cross-border disputes, the number of cases of cross-border disputes and the number of cases of cross-border disputes. at the same time, it is necessary to revise this regulation and to establish a clear definition of 'habitual residence'. taking such steps is particularly important in the current context of increased mobility, which is leading to an increase in cross-border child protection cases linked to deprivation of custody. to that end, it is particularly important that member states cooperate and put in place monitoring and evaluation systems for cross-border cases involving children. at the same time, contact between the parent and the child should not be interrupted if the child is not in danger of harm. i therefore support the call for member states to guarantee parents the right to regular visits and to allow them to use their mother tongue when visiting their children.
in writing. i supported the european parliament resolution on the protection of the best interests of the child across borders. it is good that the committee on petitions took the initiative and, on the basis of numerous petitions from citizens, drew up this resolution. the current eu regulation on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial and parental matters (brussels iia) is flawed and needs to be improved in the interests of families and children. i am also very pleased that the resolution develops the principle that the best interests of the child are linked to his family, including the wider family. i strongly support that approach. unfortunately, parliament's texts do not always emphasise this point. the mobility of people within europe brings a large number of cross-border disputes involving families and children. it is necessary to improve judicial cooperation between member states and to create a platform to provide assistance to eu citizens in dealing with cross-border family issues. the socio-legal protection of children within the eu is also important. relations between eu countries are qualitatively different from those with other countries. this is largely due to the presence of eu legislation. unfortunately, in external relations with third countries, such as norway, there are no such legal instruments and cases involving families are then more difficult to resolve. i believe that the situation will improve in this area as well, following norway's accession to the hague convention this year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution focusing on the way in which the best interest of children can be guaranteed in all member states. this should apply not only within member states but also in cross-border cases.
in writing. ‒ adoptions or any kind of foster arrangements should give the child the best possibility to maintain links with his or her cultural background and to learn and use his or her mother tongue. member states which have not yet signed the hague convention on the protection of children are encouraged to do so. i believe that measures always need to be taken in the best interest of the child. however, this report includes many problematic aspects which concern the transfer of responsibilities to the commission away from national parliaments and courts, and prescriptive measures promoting a one-size-fits-all approach.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a request to consult the european economic and social committee on the creation of a european pillar of social rights. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the european pillar of social rights, in particular by providing support to the social partners in the member states and by supporting the social partners in the member states. i can't help but identify with that. the economic crisis of recent years has far-reaching social consequences that may limit the prospects for future growth and economic performance across europe. the current pace and scale of change in the world of work is, of course, transforming employment conditions. the commission has launched a public consultation which should lead to a european pillar of social rights. this is one of the gue/ngl's priorities and we will be following the commission's actions closely. i voted in favor of the bill.
in writing. ‒ i am strongly in favour of further integration of the european railway area. i believe that this step will have positive results for all parties, as it will bring more growth and create new jobs. three railway packages have been launched so far, bringing a lot of improvements in this area. however, further regulation is still needed as the european railway environment still faces many obstacles, especially in the area of entrepreneurship. for these reasons, i support the creation of a fourth package, based on the eu agency for railways and the proposal for a recast of directive 2004/49/ec. this new instrument will not only improve the technical compatibility of transport, rolling stock, signalling systems and other components of railway systems, but also increase transparency compared to many national regulations. it is equally important to take into account the situation in the individual member states with different track gauges. although this situation does not apply to the czech republic, this fact should be taken into account as countries with a track gauge greater than the eu standard are cut off from the main eu rail network.
in writing. i supported the second reading of the draft regulation, which, together with the draft directive on railway safety and the draft directive on the interoperability of railways in the eu, is part of the so-called eu's fourth railway package. those proposals aim to remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles to the convergence of the different railway systems in the member states. the proposed regulation on the eu agency for railways is intended to replace the existing regulation no 881/2004 of the same name. the new legislation of the already functioning eu agency for railways responds to the changes under discussion at the same time in the framework of the railway package in the field of railway safety and interoperability of railway systems. the proposal would concentrate more powers in the eu agency for railways, which would allow the agency to issue all authorisations for vehicles to be used and all safety certificates to railway undertakings operating cross-border services. importantly, where previously undertakings had to apply for a licence in each member state separately, a single licence from the eu agency for railways is now sufficient. this is intended to reduce the administrative burden on railway undertakings. in addition, the agency will be able to establish a single contact point for the submission of all applications.
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption of the european parliament's proposal for a regulation on the european union agency for railways (era). the european union agency for railways will have the power to issue safety certificates to railway undertakings operating in more than one member state. a railway undertaking operating in one member state may choose to be certified by era or by a national safety authority. the aim will be, in particular, to speed up administrative procedures and reduce administrative costs, while maintaining the existing high level of security and preventing hidden discrimination. it is expected to enable railway undertakings and manufacturers across the eu to increase economies of scale and also to increase their competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i supported the revision of regulation (ec) 881/2004 establishing a european agency for railways (era). the revised text will give the era new competence in the area of safety certification, vehicle authorisation and monitoring the development of the european rail traffic management system. i believe a centralised agency will be more efficient that 28 national authorities and should have the capacity to settle conflicts, as is already the case in the air transport sector. this text is part of the technical pillar of the 4th railway package, which aims to advance toward a single european railway area, and the whole package should be evaluated globally. in a european union of free movement, the development of the transport sector cannot be confined to national level, and opening the national networks will attract the investment the sector is lacking.
in writing. the railway parcels, as they have been gradually adopted, have two pages. ensure the organisation of the interconnection of rail networks across the eu and the harmonisation of technical standards for both railway sets and infrastructure. this part of the package is undeniably a positive step. the forced division of railways into infrastructure, freight and passenger transport, often carried out recklessly, especially in smaller eu countries, or associated with privatisation (see uk), has clearly not worked. it is logical that a number of politicians have legitimate and critical comments on this aspect of railway developments. the interoperability directive is, in this respect, a technical standard and can therefore allow the recognition of the technical conditions for authorising the placing of a vehicle on the market and facilitate the obtaining of authorisation to place a vehicle in service. the railway agency shall authorise the safety and traffic management systems to ensure consistency between the corresponding on-board subsystems and the infrastructure. it is understandable that the member states will find in the directive an obligation to provide comparative tables when implementing it. they shall make it possible to identify easily the national provisions corresponding to the different parts of this directive. in view of the above, i am optimistic that the directive will make progress in addressing the problems associated with the recognition of the possibility of cross-eu operation of assemblies and will also improve the possibility of supplying the fitting in different eu countries. i therefore support the adoption of this directive.
in writing. i welcome the simplification of vehicle authorisation conditions which will remove a major barrier to the entry of new vehicles on the market. new companies wishing to enter the railway market have difficulty entering because they are unable to put their vehicles into service due to the complicated authorisation rules in the individual member states. in the czech republic, the example is regiojet or leo express. however, the same applies to established companies wishing to enter foreign markets or to introduce new vehicles, which must undergo a series of tests and obtain authorisation for placing in service. simplification of the conditions for the authorisation of vehicles will therefore help to create effective competition in rail transport.
in writing. i have agreed to the adoption of the recommendation for second reading in the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union, as i believe that this directive will lead to a better unification of the european railway area, reduce administrative costs and speed up procedures. i consider this directive to be important, in particular because of the persistent profound differences in rail transport between member states. at the same time, this directive will help to increase the competitiveness of eu businesses and reduce costs for railway companies and manufacturers. i also see a positive contribution in the effort to reduce the bureaucratic burden on companies focusing on the production of rolling stock. under the new rules, they will not have to submit an application to each member state in which the vehicle will be operated separately. a single point of contact will be established for this purpose, which will facilitate procedures and increase transparency.
in writing. i am pleased that after long negotiations a compromise has been reached which will move rail transport towards a single european railway area. the technical part of the fourth railway package simplifies the certification of vehicles intended for international operations to be newly approved by the european union agency for railways. the proposal also includes the unification of rail traffic management systems and the eu single safety certificate. the proposed agreement will help to speed up crossborder rail traffic by removing obstacles at border stations, such as the exchange of locomotives. that's why i decided to support this motion.
in writing. i supported the second reading of the draft directive which, together with the draft directive on railway safety and the draft regulation on the european union agency for railways, forms part of the so-called eu's fourth railway package. those proposals aim to remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles to the convergence of the different railway systems (i.e. infrastructure networks and vehicles) in the member states. the new directive on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union is to replace directive 2008/57/ec on the interoperability of the rail system within the community. it has already been amended several times and a new regulation should be adopted for reasons of clarity. the interoperability, commonality and interconnectedness of rail systems are laid down in particular in the technical requirements for interoperability (tsi). the proposed directive clarifies some points of the existing adaptation, for example in the provisions on the scope of the directive, the adaptation of derogations from the tsi and the applicability of national rules. this directive aims to enhance interconnection in the design, manufacture, construction, operation and upgrading of railway systems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the adoption of a european parliament and council directive on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union, as the system introduced by this new directive will bring europe closer to a single european railway area. it will significantly help to improve the technical compatibility of infrastructure, rolling stock, signalling systems and other components of the rail system and simplify the procedures for the approval of rolling stock for use on the entire european rail network. the interoperability of the european railway traffic management system (ertms) projects will also be ensured.
in writing. ‒ i supported the revised text on the interoperability of the rail system within the eu. the text is part of the 4th railway package which aims to achieve a single european rail area. i strongly believe that, while the eu is built upon free movement, the railway sector cannot compete with the other modes of transport as long as its development remains purely national. this new directive will provide for shortening the time it takes for companies to obtain certification of their rolling stock, and for unified procedures and clearer interoperability rules across the eu, under the surveillance of the european railways agency.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the report presented because i am convinced that the system introduced by this new directive will bring europe closer to a single european railway area. i am convinced that this directive will also reduce administrative costs and speed up procedures, while maintaining the existing high level of safety. i also welcome the fact that this directive will significantly reduce the number of national rules in the areas where harmonised regulation is being introduced at eu level. there is no doubt that this instrument will help to prevent any hidden discrimination, in particular against new undertakings seeking to enter the railway market. i therefore expect that the directive will enable railway undertakings and manufacturers across the eu to increase economies of scale and eu businesses to increase their competitiveness.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposed text of the directive of the european parliament and of the council on railway safety, to support the efforts to create a common regulatory framework. this framework is to become the basis for the establishment of a single market for rail transport services. the railway safety directive, originally issued in 2004, brought about significant improvements in the harmonisation of the content of safety regulations, safety certificates for railway undertakings, the tasks and role of safety authorities and accident investigations. these advantages have led me to support the revision of this directive, which will lead to a transition from the current two-part system to a single safety certificate in the union. the revision will enhance the role of the eu agency for railways (era), which will play a key role in issuing safety certificates to railway undertakings operating in more than one member state. this will allow each company to decide whether it wants to be certified by era or by the national safety authority. in addition, railway safety and incident reporting will be improved.
in writing. i supported the second reading of the draft directive which, together with the draft directive on the interoperability of the rail system in the european union and the draft regulation on the european union agency for railways, is part of the so-called eu's fourth railway package. those proposals aim to remove the remaining administrative and technical obstacles to the convergence of the different railway systems in the member states. the new railway safety directive is to replace the existing directive 2004/49/ec of the same name. the proposed amendment provides in particular for a single safety certificate for railway undertakings to be issued by the eu agency for railways. the single certificate replaces the two-component system whereby undertakings have until now had to obtain a certificate at both union and member state level. the single safety certificate will be valid for undertakings in all member states where they operate. a railway undertaking operating in only one member state may choose to apply for certification to the eu railway agency or to a national authority. the proposal also gives the eu agency for railways the possibility to set up a system for the exchange of information on safety risks between safety authorities across member states. i consider it useful that all three legislative proposals under discussion are a meaningful development of the work begun with the first railway package adopted in 2001 and aimed at promoting the single internal market.
in writing. i supported the adoption of the directive of the european parliament and of the council on railway safety, in particular to create a framework for harmonising the content of safety rules and to create and implement a single eu safety certificate. it is essential to improve the safety and incident reporting culture of railway undertakings and infrastructure managers. this will motivate staff to report incidents in confidence and allow the railway industry to learn and improve working practices. the safety, interoperability and reliability of the european rail network will be enhanced. member states will be obliged to check, for example, whether drivers comply with the rules on working hours, driving hours and rest periods. an important element will be the improvement of the system for the timely exchange of information on security risks. this will further facilitate the cross-border exchange of information in cases where there is a safety risk, for example where the same type of rolling stock is used in more than one member state.
in writing. ‒ i supported the revision of directive 2004/49/ec on safety on the community’s railways, as negotiated. this proposal is part of the 4th railway package which aims at creating a single european railway area. specifically this text provides for a single eu safety certificate instead of the current two-part system. the competence to issue those certificates will be left to the european railways agency, thus enabling the use of a unified procedure across the eu and saving time. opening up the market to eu competition is the only way to overcome the current bottlenecks we are facing in the development of a european railway area, and this has to go hand in hand with ensuring the highest level of safety for cross-border train operations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not think that the new regulations will improve the situation. furthermore, i am not a supporter of the political idea that all manipulation, for example of benchmarks, can be solved by state intervention. for example, if some banks manipulated this data and misled consumers, then the laws were already broken under current law.
in writing. - an index is a measure of price or quantity, usually determined from time to time on the basis of a representative set of baseline data. if an index is used as a reference price for a financial instrument or contract, it becomes the reference value. currently, there is a wide variety of benchmarks, which are established by different entities, from public bodies to independent benchmark providers, using different methodologies. our group points out the importance of benchmarks, but above all their weaknesses. indeed, reference interest rates can be manipulated very easily, as has been demonstrated for example with reference interest rates libor and euribor. since the trialogue did not bring any significant improvement in this respect and no certainty of protection against possible manipulation, i voted against the proposal.
in writing. as my group's shadow rapporteur, i supported a compromise version of the regulation which would avoid scandals such as the manipulation of libor reference interest rates, reference exchange rates and the manipulation of other indices. the need to improve the quality of indices used in many financial contracts by both firms and individual investors was highlighted by the aforementioned scandals of the past years. the main challenge in the development of this legislation was to find rules that respected the existence of both indices describing markets with turnover in the hundreds of billions of euros and indices showing the development of small, often local, markets. we have, on behalf of the european parliament, pushed for clear proportionality in regulation, reflecting the differences between the different types of indices.
in writing. - i voted against it. i don't agree with this wasteful budget where large amounts of taxpayer funds are being wasted without thought and on a lot of useless projects and offices. i voted only on minor issues, such as criticism of the commission for not providing information or olaf's request for greater transparency.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the czech delegation to the epp has managed to convince the group not to support the point criticising the work of a czech official in the cabinet of commissioner creţu and demanding that he be relieved of his responsibility for the czech republic. thanks in particular to the neutral vote of our group, this point was dropped from the report and replaced by a more general and systematic formulation according to which staff of public authorities employed in the private office of the european commissioner should, if possible within the framework of their duties, not be entrusted with relations with their own member states, unless any possible conflict of interest with the legitimate interests of the commission is duly examined and excluded. i think that wording is correct, and that is why i endorsed the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted to give the european commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. i appreciate the long-term cooperation and the active approach of the commission in addressing the issues in the process of preparing the discharge procedure. i am particularly pleased that today the plenary voted against the original motions put forward by the ppe political group and damaging a specific person working for the commissioner's office, in this case a czech deputy. i condemn the embarrassment that has been caused by the vote in the cont committee on this matter. i believe that the committee on budgetary control should be the example of respect for legal and ethical principles and should not be subject to the pressure of any individual interests.
in writing. the error in the court's report does not allow us to give a discharge for the implementation of the eu general budget. unfortunately, there is still a lot of money being misused, and although some institutions have improved their management, overall it is still not enough, and i am still not happy with the way the eu is handling taxpayers' money. at a time when savings are being made and governments are cutting back at home, it is unacceptable for the eu to increase its budget. there is no justification for increasing the eu budget, either at the time of austerity measures or at any other time.
in writing. – i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the european commission although i have many reservations about the budget spending which is not always directed at achieving added value. however, i believe in constructive criticism and i think the presented report offers a key set of recommendations that will pave the path to successful and effective spending in the years to come. specifically, concerning §387, where the original text names and shames a concrete personnel member of the commissioner’s cabinet, i voted in favour of amendment number 57, which encourages the commission to avoid any potential conflicts of interests in the cabinets, but which at the same time does not point a finger to one specific employee, but rather sets a general rule, which is based on constructive criticism and which will address all similar types of situations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the court of auditors’ special reports, which provide very useful and in-depth information regarding the use and implementation of eu funds for the year 2014.
in writing. ‒ all investment funds live only on taxpayers' money, which is also mentioned in this report. rather than taking people's money and redistributing it, it is better to leave the people with the taxes and let them decide what to do with their own money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the commission discharge regarding the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds in 2014, as it has spent the funds according to the rules. through these funds, the eu works towards reducing and eventually eradicating poverty by 2020 through the promotion of economic, social and human development, as well as regional cooperation in the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and the overseas countries and territories (octs).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european parliament in 2014, as i believe the observations made by the rapporteur were mostly very appropriate. i also supported the text noting the urgent need for audit of the meps’ general expenditure allowance budget line, but i could not fully support some amendments regarding this allowance as they would significantly increase the administrative burden in members’ offices and also in the ep administration as such.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is one of the eu's budgetary institutions. i have tried to reduce the waste of resources by at least voting to abolish the lux prize, freezing meps' allowances or abolishing the contribution to european parties and institutions. i was against the report as a whole.
in writing. i supported the discharge (final accounts) of the european parliament for 2014. the total budget of the european parliament in 2014 was around 1,3% of the eu budget, an increase of only 0,3% compared to 2013. i think that's acceptable. of course, much money would be saved if the ep had only one seat and the members and the secretariat did not have to move to strasbourg. i have therefore supported the passages in the report which spoke of this, as i have done for a long time. i am very pleased that the european parliament has finally endorsed the lux film prize (lux prize film) in this report after difficult negotiations. i can proudly say that as vice chair of the cult committee, i fought hard for this award and our voice and our arguments ultimately prevailed in the debate. the lux prize is an established brand in the film community and makes a major contribution to the promotion of european cinema in our cinemas. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the following undertakings: the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the costs of the luxopco project. luxopco's sales volume and market share in the union are therefore not comparable to luxopco's sales volume and market share in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge regarding the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for 2014, as the latter has not been transparent and fully accountable to union citizens, by refusing the take part in the annual discharge procedure like the other eu institutions since 2009. better cooperation between the parliament and the council would make the discharge procedure a much smoother process.
in writing. - i voted against it. i regard the european court of justice as a symbol of the taking away of sovereignty from the member states. the eu should not have a legal system that is superior and enforced outside of sovereign states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the court of justice discharge regarding the implementation of the 2014 budget, as no significant irregularities concerning its implementation were identified. the court of justice has thus further ensured that the law of the founding treaties was observed in 2014.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because the court is able to point out the lack of transparency and the shortcomings in the budget. i consider the court of auditors to be an institution that is not respected even by the eu itself, as evidenced by the multiple budget rejections, in particular the distribution of grants. there is no reflection on the eu side.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the court of auditors discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of 2014, as it appears to have made a satisfactory use of its funds. it thus continued ensuring better and smarter spending of european funds, and improving the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of the activities financed by these funds.
in writing. ‒ i am against money for the body that negotiates social systems with the eu. this should always be the domain of the nation states, and not the uniform imposition on all through the commission. i also disagree with the part of the proposal that says the eesc should be promoted more on social media.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 for the european economic and social committee. the report cites the court's conclusions that no significant errors were found in the management of the institution. however, the court has pointed out shortcomings in four of the 15 competitions assessed and also points to an increase in the cost of staff travel. the report also notes that there is still room for improvement in the cooperation between the european parliament, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, and that the three institutions should cooperate more closely and draw up a new agreement governing the forms of cooperation. i consider the report to be balanced, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i disagree with the budget for the committee of the regions. the committee would not be necessary if the eu did not create rules that are superior to national legal systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the committee of the regions discharge in respect to the implementation of the budget of 2014, in light of the fact that it complied with all the rules regarding budget spending in that year. the committee of the regions therefore continued enhancing the cooperation between european, national, regional and local levels by involving regional and local authorities in the european decision-making process and to enhance citizen participation.
in writing. ‒ i am against increasing the budget for the european external action service. this is a waste of the people's money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the eeas discharge in respect to the implementation of the 2014 budget, as it used its funds in line with the rules. in 2014 the eeas thus continued to make the eu a stronger actor on the international stage by carrying out the eu's common foreign and security policy in cooperation with the diplomatic services of the member states.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 for the european ombudsman's office. the report notes the conclusions of the court of auditors, which found no significant weaknesses in the audited districts concerning human resources and public procurement. the court also concluded in its audit that the expenditure was not significantly affected by errors. the report also notes that the institution's rate of implementation has improved. i also personally welcome the increase in the percentage of admissibility decisions taken within one month of receipt of a complaint as well as the reduction in the average length of the investigation. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european ombudsman discharge regarding the implementation of the budget of 2014, since it complied with the spending rules and thus contributed to making the eu institutions more effective, transparent and accountable.
in writing. ‒ i see the european data protection supervisor as a schizophrenic eu that does not otherwise respect the privacy of its citizens. whether it's financial transactions, bank accounts, internet surveillance or airline passenger records. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 for the office of the european data protection supervisor. the report cites the conclusions of the court of auditors, which found no major irregularities in its audit, in particular in the tightly controlled human resources and public procurement issues. it is further noted that all open internal audit recommendations were closed in 2014 and that the authority achieved a better management result than in the previous year. however, the report also criticises the lack of comprehensive information on the policy on conflict of interest and the lack of clear rules on the revolving door effect. the correction was promised in the 2015 report. i voted in favour of the report because i consider it to be balanced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european data protection supervisor discharge regarding the implementation of the 2014 budget, as it used the funds appropriately, thus monitoring the processing of personal data by the eu institutions and bodies, advising on privacy policies and legislation, and safeguarding reliable data protection.
in writing. ‒ in the report, i only agree that many agencies are unable to demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of their activities. but overall, i'm against it.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eu agencies for the financial year 2014 performance, financial management and control. in addition to the court's findings, which found no major maladministration, the report on the activities of the eu executive agencies highlights the need to combat conflicts of interest and to increase the transparency of agencies. i also agree with the emphasis on better application of the code of conduct and the ethical principles. i also agree with the report's conclusions that some agencies have not yet adopted the general guidelines for whistleblowing. i also share the view that we must fight to tackle corruption in the public sector, ensure better public access to documents and introduce stricter rules against conflicts of interest. i therefore voted to accept the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european union discharge concerning the implementation of the budget of 2014, in terms of performance, financial management and control across the european institutions, as the budget was used in line with the given rules.
in writing. ‒ i don't think this agency has any positive impact on energy prices. the best tool to protect consumers is competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european union discharge concerning the implementation of the budget of 2014, in terms of performance, financial management and control across the european institutions, as the budget was used in line with the given rules.
in writing. - i am against the existence of an office for the association of regulatory authorities. i don't approve of such an office even at the state level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the body of european regulators for electronic communications discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget, as it made a correct use of the annual funds. this body provides an independent, consistent, high-quality regulation of electronic communications markets for european citizens.
in writing. - i voted against, i disagree with the increase in the budget for this institution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the translation centre for the bodies of the european union discharge regarding the implementation of its 2014, as it made a correct use of funds, and thus continued responding to the translation needs of a large number of european agencies and offices.
in writing. ‒ vocational education is a matter for the nation states, not the eu. i disagree with the report that the bureau is helping to reduce unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european centre for the development of vocational training discharge regarding the 2014 budget. this is because it used its funds in line with the assessment criteria, and thus continued providing high-quality comparative analyses, networks and expertise to create a good european vet policy.
‒ security and policing are matters that should be the exclusive responsibility of the nation states. police cooperation between states has historically been there, and interpol is an example.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european police college discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as it used its funds in line with the rules. cepol's mission is to safeguard the security of the european union and its citizens by providing training and learning opportunities to law enforcement officers.
in writing. ‒ i agree that international aviation safety requires common rules, but the budget of this agency is increasing and the agency is not yet showing real benefits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european aviation safety agency discharge regarding the budget of 2014, because it has fulfilled the required criteria, and thus played a vital role in ensuring the highest possible level of aviation safety throughout europe. 2014 was a challenging year for aviation safety, and i hope the agency will be able to tackle the challenges in the year ahead.
in writing. ‒ i am fundamentally opposed to the eu handling asylum issues in any way. it is a violation of the sovereignty of the nation states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european asylum support office discharge regarding the budget of 2014, as it used its funds correctly, and in line with its aim to protect the people in need, by providing expertise on asylum and facilitating much needed cooperation between member states. i realise that this agency has been under immense pressure in the refugee crisis we are currently undergoing, and i therefore appreciate this effort.
in writing. ‒ i disagree with the assessment that the eba has a significant influence on ensuring the stability of financial markets in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european banking authority discharge regarding the 2014 budget as it has used its funds in line with the requirements, and has thus contributed to maintaining financial stability in the eu and safeguarding the integrity, efficiency and functioning of the banking sector.
in writing. on 28 april 2016, at the extraordinary plenary session of the european parliament in brussels, we voted to grant discharge to the european centre for disease prevention and control for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. i am the contact person for the european parliament and i have to deal with this in the long term. the ecdc has been through some turbulent events in the last two years. it is constantly faced with more and more obligations, such as greater involvement and assistance in the eastern partnership countries, or in dealing with global crises, such as the ebola epidemic or, currently, the zika epidemic. i'm proud to say that the agency has been navigating these issues successfully so far. not only does it work effectively where it is needed, but even in doing so it manages to reduce its costs and administrative burden as the commission wants it to. the need and influence of this agency in the world to come will surely increase, and i hope it will do even better than it does today. i'm glad i could vote to grant this discharge.
in writing. - i got held up. i think disease control is an important issue, but i think that's already being done by the world health organization, for example, which is a global organization.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european centre for disease prevention and control discharge regarding the budget of 2014, as it made a correct use of its funds, and thus contributing to strengthening europe's defences against infectious diseases.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not think that the budget of eur 114 million is an effective cost for the activities provided by this agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european chemicals agency discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as the funds were used in line with the requirements. the agency implements the eu’s chemicals legislation, ensures that the chemicals do not harm human health and the environment, and contributes to europe’s innovation and competitiveness.
in writing. - i don't agree with the existence of this agency. the environment should be protected, but by agreements between states, not through a €52 million agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european environment agency discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as the budget was compliant with all the relevant rules, and served to provide independent information on the environment for policy-makers and the public.
in writing. ‒ i am against eu interference in national fisheries policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european fisheries control agency discharge regarding the budget of 2014, since the funds were used in line with the rules, and served to help member states comply with the common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european food safety authority discharge regarding the budget of 2014, as the budget was in order, and served to provide independent opinions and advice for european policies and legislation on existing and emerging risks associated with our food chain.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the existence of the institute for equality. citizens must be equal before the law, but not be deliberately favoured or disadvantaged on the basis of the preferences of politicians.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european institute for gender equality discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as the funds were spent according to the rules, and served to address the challenges of and promote equality between women and men across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the praise for spending money and increasing the budget of this institution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european insurance and occupational pensions authority discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as it complied with the rules, and served to stabilise our financial system, ensure the transparency of our markets and financial products, and protect insurance policyholders and recipients of pension schemes.
in writing. i find the activities of this office to be absurd. innovation cannot be ordered or 'promoted'. the only thing that can be done is to free up the business environment so that innovation can emerge in the market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european institute of innovation and technology discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as that the budget complied with the rules, and thus stimulated european innovators and entrepreneurs to find solutions to the eu's most challenging problem.
in writing. - i don't agree with increasing the budget of this agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european medicines agency discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as the budget was in compliance with the rules, and served ensure that the medecine developped by pharmaceutical companies for our use is safe.
in writing. - i don't agree with the existence of a drug center. it is costly to produce meaningless and unverifiable statistics at the expense of the taxpayer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction discharge regarding the 2014 budget, because it complied with the rules and served to provide information about drug usage for european policy-makers, professionals and practitioners working in the field.
‒ i do not consider the activities of this agency to be a good use of taxpayers' money. the eu should not be dealing with navigation rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european maritime safety agency discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as it complied with the rules, and served to provide technical assistance and support regarding the implementation and development of eu legislation on maritime safety, ship pollution and maritime security.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree that the eu agency should deal with cybersecurity. this is supposed to be a matter for the police and interpol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european union agency for network and information security discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as it complied with the requirements, and served to deliver advice and solutions regarding cyber security in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european railway agency discharge regarding the budget of 2014, as it was in line with the requirements, and thus played a vital role in building an integrated railway area inside europe and creating common safety and technical standards throughout europe.
in writing. - i don't agree with increasing the budget for this office.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european securities and markets authority discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as it complied with the rules and served to improve the financial markets in europe, strengthen investor protection and cooperation between the relevant national authorities.
in writing. ‒ i disagree with the assessment of the agency's importance and its involvement in the area of migration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european training foundation discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as the budget complied with the given rules, and therefore helped countries in transition and developing countries to harness the potential of their human capital through reforming education, training and labour markets.
in writing. - i don't agree with the way this office works. in particular, the schengen area has failed, as has the exchange of information on asylum and freedom of movement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as it complied with the rules and therefore served to promote information and communication technology (ict) as a valuable instrument to making europe a safer place.
in writing. ‒ occupational safety and health is a matter for national legislation in the member states. so i don't agree with the idea of running this office in parallel with the money of the employees and other taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european securities and markets authority discharge regarding the 2014 budget because it complied with the relevant rules, and assisted businesses, employees and governments in making workplaces across europe safer, healthier and more productive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the euratom supply agency discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as it complied with the relevant rules, and continued serving esa’s purpose of guaranteeing a regular, equitable and secure supply of nuclear fuels to eu users.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions discharge regarding the 2014 budget, since it complied with the relevant rules. eurofund thus contributed to better living and working conditions in europe, by providing information, advice and expertise to key actors in social policy.
in writing. ‒ i am against eurojust trying to supplant the national law of the member states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european union’s judicial cooperation unit discharge regarding the 2014 budget since it complied with the rules, and contributed to stimulating and improving the coordination of investigations and prosecutions between member states.
in writing. - i am against the creation of a european police authority. a good example of international cooperation of nation states is interpol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european police office discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as it complied with the required rules, fulfilling europol’s mission to help national authorities fight serious international crime and terrorism. europe’s most recent events have shown that coordination in that field is becoming vital to ensure the security of european citizens.
in writing. - i don't agree with the increase in the agency's budget. we don't need an agency for fundamental rights, which are a matter of national legal systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european union agency for fundamental rights discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as it was in line with the requirements, which therefore continued ensuring full respect for fundamental rights across the eu, by providing the eu and member states with independent, evidence-based advice on fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i disagree with the budget for an organisation that has proven to be completely dysfunctional in the performance of its duties to protect the eu's borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as it complied with the given rules. frontex thus enabled border authorities from different eu countries to work together and secure the external borders of europe.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the european union developing global navigation systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the european global navigation satellite systems agency discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as it complied with the relevant requirements, thus ensuring that public interests are properly defended and represented in the field of satellite navigation programmes.
in writing. - i don't agree with wasting taxpayers' money on this project. transport or ict is a matter for companies that are able to negotiate themselves, and this office is just siphoning off funds from entrepreneurs.
in writing. the joint undertakings artemis and eniac have been subject to repeated postponements of discharge in the past, not due to maladministration but for technical reasons, as their ex post audit strategy was dependent on audits by the national financial authorities in the legislative framework. in mid-2014, the two joint ventures merged into ecsel, which is now subject to the new rules and where the technical problem no longer exists. i therefore regard the postponement of discharge for the non-existent undertakings artemis and eniac as an unnecessary extra exercise and for that reason i recommended that discharge be granted to those two undertakings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge for artemis regarding the 2014 budget, as there were not enough documents and information from the respective national audit bodies to be able to take such a decision.
in writing. ‒ i find this project very dubious, especially given its high cost in the hundreds of millions and billions of euros. the fight against co2 has become a pretext to raise taxes, and this project is an example of that. companies themselves are motivated to look for the most economical technologies that will save them fuel and cost.
in writing. ‒ as shadow rapporteur for this report, i supported the discharge to be given to clean sky. i have found no serious reason for not granting it and, on the contrary, i would like to at least defend myself against the critical language used in the report against the european court of auditors. i have a special appreciation for the eca for its very high quality work and excellent communication.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the clean sky joint undertaking discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as it was correctly used that year. the joint undertaking thus contributed to developing breakthrough technologies to achieve the single european sky environmental objectives, namely less noisy and more fuel efficient aircraft.
in writing. - i disagree with ecsel and its mission. research in electronics and smart technologies is best done by companies in the market without unnecessary barriers. it is not the eu's job to siphon off taxes and try to finance the work of companies with them.
in writing. ‒ as shadow rapporteur for this report, i supported the discharge to ecsel. i have found no compelling reason for non-allocation and i welcome the fact that this joint undertaking, created by the merger of artemis and eniac, operates under legislation which eliminates the previous problems with audits carried out at national level, which caused problems in the audit of artemis and eniac undertakings by the eeas in the previous period. i would like to make this point in order to defend myself against the critical language used by the rapporteur against the european court of auditors. i have a special appreciation for the eca for its very high quality work and excellent communication.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the electronic components and systems for european leadership joint undertaking discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as it complied with the applicable rules. the joint undertaking thus contributed to keeping europe at the forefront of technology development, by strengthening industrial competitiveness in key technologies.
in writing. - i disagree with eniac and its mission. nanotechnology research is best done by companies in the market without unnecessary obstacles. it is not the eu's job to siphon off taxes and try to finance the work of companies with them.
in writing. the joint undertakings artemis and eniac have been subject to repeated postponements of discharge in the past, not due to maladministration but for technical reasons, as their ex post audit strategy was dependent on audits by the national financial authorities in the legislative framework. in mid-2014, the two joint ventures merged into ecsel, which is now subject to the new rules and where the technical problem no longer exists. i therefore regard the postponement of discharge for the non-existent undertakings artemis and eniac as an unnecessary extra exercise and for that reason i recommended that discharge be granted to those two undertakings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge for eniac regarding the 2014 budget, as national bodies failed to provide the court with the necessary information to make sure the 2014 accounts were reliable, legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of developing technologies in the energy sector. however, we will not achieve this by redistributing the taxes that are taken from the companies that conduct the research. so i don't agree with spending hundreds of millions of euros that could have been left to companies to have money for research.
in writing. ‒ as shadow rapporteur for this report, i supported the discharge of the fhc fuel cell company. i have found no serious reason for not granting it and, on the contrary, i would like to at least defend myself against the critical language used in the report against the european court of auditors. i have a special appreciation for the eca for its very high quality work and excellent communication.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as it complied with the given rules, and therefore contributed to achieving a carbon-lean energy system to accelerate the potential of fuel cell and hydrogen energy technologies.
in writing. ‒ as shadow rapporteur for this report, i supported the discharge to be given to imi. i have found no serious reason for not granting it and, on the contrary, i would like to at least defend myself against the critical language used in the report against the european court of auditors. i have a special appreciation for the eca for its very high quality work and excellent communication.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking discharge regarding the 2014 budget, since it complied with the required rules. the joint undertaking was thus able to contribute to speeding up the development of better and safer medicines, enable collaborative research projects and boost pharmaceutical innovation in europe.
‒ iter is arguably the most ambitious energy project in the world, with the eu and other countries, including the us, participating in the fusion for energy joint undertaking. these countries are working together to build the tokamak, which should become the first step towards the commercial use of thermonuclear fusion in energy. iter stands out logically among other undertakings with its budget, unique concept and technological sophistication, and has therefore also received special attention. i am aware of the current problems and unrealistic plans regarding budget and timetable, but i think it is important to stress that this is the only way forward for a project of this complexity. in recent months, i have had the opportunity to learn more about the operation of the iter project in my role as shadow rapporteur, and i am pleased that during this time a significant positive shift has taken place and that some of the medium-term objectives and technological milestones have been achieved. i believe that we have reason to believe that the long-awaited action plan will be approved in june and that we will be able to grant the iter joint undertaking budgetary discharge in the autumn. now, we've had to move him because of a delayed action plan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge for iter and the development of fusion energy regarding the 2014 budget, as despite progress being made in several areas, there was not enough information about the revised schedule and cost estimate of the iter project
in writing. ‒ i am aware that air traffic control requires international cooperation, but i am not in favour of the eu setting up these authorities.
in writing. ‒ as shadow rapporteur for this report, i supported the discharge to be given to sesar. i have found no serious reason for not granting it and, on the contrary, i would like to at least defend myself against the critical language used in the report against the european court of auditors. i have a special appreciation for the eca for its very high quality work and excellent communication.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting sesar joint undertaking the discharge regarding the 2014 budget, because it was in line with the relevant rules. sesar therefore continued acting as the technological pillar of europe’s ambitious single european sky (ses) initiative.
in writing. ‒ i strongly disagree with the eib budget and its overall spirit. you can't build an economy on one person getting money and another getting it. jobs that are saved on the one hand are lost on the other. i disagree with the report that this system means job creation.
in writing. i would like to highlight the fact that in 2014 the eib launched new innovative instruments to support climate action, such as private financing for the energy efficiency instrument and the natural capital financing instrument, but i am not satisfied that eib support for renewable energy capacity building in 2014 was predominantly concentrated in the five largest eu economies and only eur 42 million out of a total of eur 4,5 billion was spent on renewable energy projects in the 13 new member states including the czech republic. moreover, a similar concentration of financial support to the old eu member states can be traced back to the energy efficiency sector, where out of a total of eur 2 billion, only eur 148 million was allocated to the 13 new member states, including the czech republic. i therefore welcome the call in the report to set the share of future investments in renewable energy capacity development and energy efficiency in the new member states and to gradually increase these shares to 30% of total investments in those areas by 2020. however, this should be accompanied by the provision of expertise to improve the capacity to prepare viable projects that will allow more investment in the energy sector.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the annual report of the european investment bank (eib) for 2014 and the conclusions presented therein. in particular, i was very pleased to receive the eib's progress report, which reports on the successful saving of 3,6 million jobs through sme financing in 2014. this is why i also welcome the eib's 'skills and jobs' initiative 'investing in youth' which invests money in education, skills development and jobs for young people. however, given the high unemployment rates in the member states, it is necessary for the eib to continue and increase its efforts in this area. at the same time, i join the call for the eib to pay more attention to presenting the results of its individual initiatives and financial instruments that were working in 2014. information on eib activities will be particularly important in view of the role it is expected to play in the review of the 2020 strategy and thus contribute to a better implementation of this initiative. i also see the launch of a new innovation instrument to support climate action as a positive contribution. i believe that it is such innovations and programmes that can help to maintain the eu's leadership in environmental and energy sustainability.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this annual report and i am personally in favour of the eib continuing its efforts to increase investment in the eu. i very much welcome the fact that in 2014 the eib financed 285 000 smes, saving 3.6 million jobs and signing contracts for a total of 413 projects within the eu worth 69 billion. i believe that the eib should focus on investments in the real economy that will stimulate job creation and economic growth in the eu. however, i see the problem in the dramatically high unemployment rates in many member states, which are particularly prevalent among young people. in my view, the eib should take this into account in the implementation of its policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i find it absolutely unacceptable that civilian facilities such as schools and hospitals are being attacked in some conflict areas. it is a clear violation of a humanitarian law and it has to be pointed out that there is no excuse for any similar act. even in worst-case scenarios where conflicts break into military confrontation, there are some basic international principles that have to be complied with by all sides engaged.
in writing. ‒ i condemn the misuse of medical facilities in armed conflicts. however, i have been reluctant to do so because it is not the role of parliament to constantly issue resolutions which do not change things.
in writing. ‒ today we adopted a motion for a resolution on the issue of attacks on hospitals and schools as a violation of international humanitarian law. today, we are sadly witnessing a horrifying trend of attacks on hospitals and schools in situations of armed conflict around the world, as well as an unprecedented increase in the denial of humanitarian aid, the execution of civilians and humanitarian workers, the detention of people in appalling conditions, and the use of civilians as hostages or forced labour. the resolution calls on the un security council to fulfil its clear mandate to ensure compliance with international law, which concerns the protection of all humanitarian workers. at the same time, we call on the eu member states to facilitate the un security council's important task by all possible means. we must promote compliance with international legal standards and any acts that may constitute violations of these standards must be investigated and the perpetrators brought to justice. i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. i find it frightening that there has been an increase in attacks on hospitals and schools recently. in addition to the humanitarian aspect, such actions result in increased humanitarian costs, which in turn lead some organisations to suspend humanitarian operations. people who voluntarily choose to offer their help to others suddenly find themselves in danger of their own lives. for this reason, i voted to adopt a joint motion for a resolution on attacks on hospitals and schools as violations of humanitarian law. i therefore call on all state and non-state actors to focus on compliance with international humanitarian law. it is also necessary to ensure that eu action and policies are consistent with these rights. i very much welcome the eu's adoption of the eu guidelines to promote respect for international law. i would also like to call on other states to adopt similar principles, declaring their commitment to act in accordance with international humanitarian law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution condemning the attacks against hospitals and schools in armed conflicts. the bombing of the hospital in kunduz, afghanistan, a few months ago cost the lives of many people including msf personnel. the text also deplores the fact that some of the eu’s partners and member states are committing serious violations of humanitarian law. it also calls on the eu to use all the resources at its disposal to promote, as part of its bilateral relations with its partners, respect for international humanitarian law.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that the principle stating that eu citizens should have an access to public administration documents is right. however, i see there are some limits to this principle and that is why i could not support some of the measures proposed in the report. the first one concerns holding trilogue negotiations in public. it has to be understood that the efficiency of the trilogue set-up is based on mutual trust between all parties present. in making these talks public we risk that there will be more political than technical exchange, which is not always useful when a deal should be reached. the same applies, in my view, to the second case mentioned in the report – negotiations of international agreements. by publishing the mandate or negotiating texts too early, we would undermine the position of the eu negotiators which could eventually end in reaching an agreement which is far less beneficial than previously expected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as the report calls for more transparency in the eu. in particular, it points out that the eu institutions remain closed to the citizen and that the path to information is very difficult. i also agree with the publication and transparency of internal processes in the institutions.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the draft report on public access to documents for 2014 and 2015. the report stresses the need for transparency, which can strengthen citizens' trust in the eu institutions. we recall that the eu institutions must operate and conduct their policies on the basis of representative democracy, as laid down in article 10 (1) teu, and must ensure that the principles of full transparency, sharing and proper and timely information of citizens are respected. we also underline the importance of article 10 (3) teu, which recognises participatory democracy as one of the eu's main principles. i agree that decisions must be taken as close as possible to the citizen. i also believe that citizens must have the right to know and control the activities of their representatives, the decision-making process as well as the use of public funds, including the structural funds. the report is, in my view, sufficiently critical of the application of the principle of transparency to date and sets ambitious targets for the future, which is why i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i am a supporter of easy access by citizens to information held by the eu institutions and therefore believe that steps should be taken to facilitate this access based on the principle of transparency. to this end, digital and electronic means that are user-friendly and also meet the needs of people with disabilities should be used to the maximum extent. only official documents for which there is a genuine justification for classifying them should be subject to a certain degree of classification. these are mainly informal or diplomatic meetings involving eu institutions, the full disclosure of which would be detrimental rather than beneficial.
in writing. public access to eu documents is one of the fundamental rights of eu citizens, as laid down in the charter of fundamental rights. i personally think it is very important that all citizens have an overview of what is happening in the eu and are aware not only of the specific decisions that affect them, but also of their rights within the eu. i therefore welcomed the report on public access to documents in 2014/2015, which highlighted in particular the imperfections that need to be addressed as soon as possible in the public interest. the key problem here remains the lack of transparency on the part of all institutions and bodies. i therefore strongly advocate the appointment of a transparency officer, who would be responsible for compliance with the legislation and improving procedures. every citizen has the right to access information about their representatives, the decision-making process and, in particular, the way public funds are allocated and spent. to this end, i agree to the publication of an electronic register to facilitate access to this data. however, all eu institutions and bodies need to develop appropriate action in this area and contribute to greater openness and access to information, as this approach is a fundamental democratic element and should not be relegated to the background. i'm a long-time advocate of the introduction of a mandatory register of lobbyists.
in writing. in today's vote on the draft report on public access to documents in 2014/2015, i supported the position of the european people's party's parliamentary club, as i believe that some of the proposals contained in the original version of the report overemphasise the principles of 'direct democracy' and i do not believe that this approach would be the solution to all problems. there is no doubt that there is still room for improving transparency and hence the comprehensibility of the eu institutions and the processes they use. the public's right to know must be respected. however, i do not believe that this right can be exercised by measures such as the preservation of all e-mail correspondence, the making available of all supporting material in all circumstances or the keeping of a record of all meetings held. for example, a member of the european parliament is a public figure who is responsible for the integrity of the performance of his mandate, but this does not mean that he has to publish a list of all his meetings, including meetings with friends and family members.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of that report underlining that the right of access to documents is a fundamental right, protected by the charter of fundamental rights and the treaties and implemented by regulation (ec) no 1049/2001. i nevertheless voted against the amendment asking for trilogues to be made public. i believe that this would not improve transparency and would deteriorate the negotiation process.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that its final text is balanced and will strengthen the democratic values on which the european union is founded. in such a large organisation as the eu is, it is always important to strike a balance between full transparency and the real possibilities that lead to greater transparency. so i am glad that we are not burdening the eu administration with this report, but at the same time our fellow citizens will have a better overview of what is happening in the eu.
in writing. ‒ although i value very much work done by domestic workers and carers i could not support this report as it was inadequately calling for a set of new eu legislation on this issue. i believe that the current legislation in force in the eu and its member states, together with standards set at international level, cover this area sufficiently.
in writing. i appreciate the theme of homework and care that this report opens up, and also that one of its aims is to introduce a more precise definition of care. i believe that this issue needs to be given due attention and that the european parliament should also be involved in supporting initiatives to ensure that domestic workers and carers have rights, protection, decent living conditions and a perspective of personal development. i have decided to vote against this report, however, because i do not think it is appropriate to create a legislative framework for this subject at european union level. in keeping with the principle of subsidiarity, this issue should be addressed at member state level, with the eu acting as a support to member states and initiatives to protect the persons concerned.
in writing. i supported the resolution on domestic workers and carers in the eu, as i believe that this group of people has been neglected for a long time. in 2010, the domestic work sector employed more than 52 million people worldwide, according to the international labour organization. according to the international labour organisation, 29.9% of domestic workers are completely excluded from national labour laws and, in the eu, the work of domestic workers and carers is still very rarely and unevenly regulated in the member states, with the result that domestic workers are often not considered typical or properly employed workers and their employment rights and social protection are therefore severely restricted. i therefore welcome the fact that we have asked the commission to present a set of policy instruments for domestic and care work, setting out qualitative guidelines for both areas. it considers that these proposals should focus, firstly, on the introduction of a general framework for the professionalisation of domestic and care work, leading to the recognition and standardisation of the relevant professions, skills and career progression, and secondly, on the urgent proposal for a directive on carers' leave and a framework for the recognition of the status of non-professional carers, which ensures them a remuneration and minimum social security standards for the period they are caring.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the dignity of workers and carers, but this area has its own specificities in each country and it is not the eu's role to impose regulations on the member states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report highlighting the obstacles faced by domestic workers and carers in the eu. according to statistics, this is an industry that employed over 52 million people worldwide in 2010. the majority of these are women, who accounted for 83% of global domestic workers in 2010. i believe that these workers should be given greater legal protection, employment and social protection rights, equal to those of employees with an employment contract. equally important are decent wages, regular working hours, paid holidays, health and safety at work and health insurance. i am also aware that this is an area where workers, mainly women, are at increased risk of exploitation. the report calls for greater protection for such persons as well as for greater enforcement of their rights. i supported the report.
in writing. i supported the report on domestic workers and carers in the eu, which touches on the long-standing problem of the use of mostly illegal workers, especially women. these women are often subject to multiple discrimination on the basis of lack of education and language skills, and are most at risk of gender-based violence and discrimination. due to the growing demand for domestic workers and carers and the lack of formal structures to provide work, this issue has become part of the grey economy. illegal workers are thus excluded from labour law and cannot enjoy, for example, the right to wage fixing, the organisation of working hours, the right to weekly, annual or maternity leave and the related benefits. paradoxically, however, this problem also affects the regular carers and workers who live in these households at the same time. it is therefore necessary to establish a specific legal framework to allow for the legal and organised employment of domestic workers and carers and to lay down the rights and obligations of the persons concerned in order to guarantee legal certainty for workers in this sector and their potential employers. i believe it is essential to recognise the work of these people as a full-fledged profession and to guarantee the rights of these workers. equally urgent is the need to tackle undeclared work, which affects mainly migrant women and domestic workers.
in writing. the report addresses the issue of domestic workers, of whom 2.5 million were employed in the eu in 2010, according to ilo data, 88% of whom were women. in most eu countries, domestic work is unreported and a significant proportion of domestic workers are migrants. in the light of the single labour market and the mobility of citizens, the question of ensuring the quality and professionalism of domestic work arises, while ensuring the decent treatment of these workers. the draft report was from the outset one-sidedly concerned with the protection of workers, expressing concern about exploitation and lack of transparency in the employment of domestic workers. quality assurance of their work is mentioned only in relation to their professionalisation. the report calls on the commission to adopt legislative and non-legislative measures, such as a proposal for a directive on carers' leave and a framework for the recognition of the status of non-professional carers. it also calls on the member states to provide for professional qualifications for certain types of domestic work, requiring specific skills and competences. i consider these and other measures to be merely an increase in the administrative burden and formal requirements without improving the quality of work performed in households. since the amendments themselves did not bring about a substantial improvement in the report, i was ultimately among those who spoke against the draft report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it calls for an eu legislative framework on domestic workers and carers. i believe that this should be up to member states’ competences.
in writing. ‒ the digital era provide a series of opportunities for women to perform a professional activity, either being employed or self-employed. that is a phenomenon to be supported and promoted as it gives more chances for women to have both a successful professional career and a balanced family life. this report, however, addresses a rather unrelated issue of women on boards of companies which i am opposed to and for that reason i could not support it as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i support the elimination of inequalities between men and women, including in employment. i believe that increasing digital literacy and the use of information and communication technologies is one of the main drivers of employment for women today. i have decided to vote against this report, however, because it calls, among other things, for the unblocking of the directive on women in public administration. while i support the overturning of long-held stereotypes and welcome initiatives aimed at gender equality, the directive on women in public administration and similar proposals containing gender quotas go, in my view, far beyond these efforts in their legislative reach.
in writing. i endorsed the european parliament resolution of 28 april 2016 on gender equality and the empowerment of women in the digital age, as i believe that digitalisation has revolutionized and fundamentally changed the way people obtain and provide information, communicate, interact, study and work, creating new opportunities for participation in public and political debates, education and employment, new opportunities for self-determination and huge economic potential for the european union and beyond, and therefore the digital age has the potential to influence the status of women in society. the problem is that only 9% of developers in europe are women, only 19% of leaders in ict and communications are women (compared to 45% in other services) and only 19% of entrepreneurs are women (compared to 54% in other services). i therefore believe that it was appropriate to call on the commission and the council to fully exploit the potential of the information society, ict and the internet in terms of women's empowerment, their rights and freedoms and gender equality irrespective of age and other factors.
in writing. - i'm against the report. citizens should always be equal before the law. equality, however, is not a situation in which one group of citizens is favored on the basis of the preferences of politicians. so i'm against any kind of gendered politicization of equality.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on gender equality and the empowerment of women in the digital age. the report points out that digitalisation has revolutionized and transformed the way people obtain and provide information, interact, study and work, and that this process also brings huge economic potential for the eu and beyond. however, it also points out that there are significant gender gaps in access to vocational and educational opportunities in the field of information and communication technologies and computer skills. i believe that digitalisation also has a significant impact on the labour market, as it changes value chains and creates new job opportunities, but also brings with it negative impacts that can affect women in particular, such as the infringement of workers' rights and the delimitation of working hours and work and non-work obligations, leading to an increase in low-paid and less secure jobs. the report also remembers that. that's why i voted for her.
in writing. ‒ digitalisation has enormous potential to be exploited in a number of areas, including improving gender equality. i am a supporter of equal opportunities for both sexes and would be happy to support initiatives that help to increase the representation of women in the information technology (ict) sectors. the ict sector is growing very fast and is constantly creating new jobs. this creates approximately 120 000 new jobs each year that are not being filled. at the same time, this shortage represents an opportunity for more qualified women to be involved in the sector. however, to empower women in the digital age, it is first necessary to ensure better education and training, which so far appears to be severely lacking given that 60% of school pupils in the eu do not even use digital equipment in the classroom. i am convinced that increasing the active participation of women in the information society will lead to increased competitiveness and improved social and economic conditions in society. i am convinced that the commission's estimate that more women in the digital labour market can increase eu gdp by eur 9 billion a year is correct. at the same time, digitalisation needs to be promoted in politics, allowing for more active participation and self-realisation not only for women but also for other under-represented groups.
in writing. i endorsed the report on gender equality and the empowerment of women in the digital age, despite many reservations. while the digital age brings advanced communication capabilities and creates space for faster and better access to information, including information supporting greater empowerment of women in the labour market and public life, its negative consequences cannot be underestimated either. there is systematic intimidation and harassment of women in cyberspace on a daily basis, not to mention cases of sexual exploitation. consider the tragic case of amanda todd. cybercrime is difficult to track and prove to offenders, and its regulation in national criminal codes is often inadequate. i therefore welcome the report's call for policymakers and the european commission to act effectively in the development of legislation in this area and to better prosecute cyber violence and bullying. there is also a need to raise awareness through education and promote safe use of the internet, especially by women. i also welcome the calls to member states and the commission to provide financial support to women entrepreneurs to use digital technologies and start businesses and to highlight the added value of online training courses for women, people with disabilities and those living in rural areas. these instruments will give these groups a chance to gain a foothold in the labour market, enable them to fight possible unemployment and strengthen their financial independence and the desire to set up their own business.
in writing. ‒ while i share the observation that the digital revolution is benefiting men more than women – currently, just 30% of all people working in the ict sector are women – i decided to vote against this report because some of the provision in the report will not help solve this situation. indeed, i do not believe that the women-on-boards directive imposing quotas will help to improve the situation.
draftswoman of the committee on employment and social affairs. madam president, the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs on the report on the new instruments for territorial development was adopted. as its draftsman, i consider the final report to be very good and i would like to thank my colleagues for their cooperation in highlighting the employment aspect of the report. from my many experiences in the czech republic, i know that the predecessor of these new instruments, the leader programme, was very well received by all the actors at local level. these new instruments can therefore benefit from an established method, namely participation at local level in so-called local action groups. however, there are new risks associated with the new instruments and the involvement of new funds. i thank the commissioner for doing everything he can to promote and increase the capacity to use this new tool.
mr president, the commission has made a number of important innovations in the direction of the european energy union. i think that this house backs this initiative, at least in its majority. yet we have a project whose implications you have described, and i do appreciate that many of those that you have described were in fact of a negative nature. there are clearly down sides; the commission acknowledges that. in other words, we have a project which is clearly not heading in the direction of the energy union, but which – even worse – is splitting the european union apart. so we are already fragmenting the unity that we need in order to be able to back the energy union before we have even started to dwell on concrete legislative proposals. for me, this is further confirmation that, apart from all the economic arguments – or the lack thereof, as has been mentioned by my colleagues – this is welcome news to the kremlin, because the kremlin is part of a deal which is splitting the european union apart. the implications are very concrete. you have mentioned the downsides, and you were more explicit than ever before, but from here on we need to embark on a clear-cut strong position. what will happen when nord stream 3, or any other project, comes around? i will stop here – and i apologise as i have to leave for another meeting, which i am late for – but i am sure that my colleagues will take care of this and that the commission will reply to a number of the questions which we jointly share.
mr president, the nord stream 2 gas pipeline is a practical example of how the european union often acts in contradiction to its more long-standing intentions. when the gas crisis erupted a few years ago, eu politicians agreed that ensuring the security of gas supply was one of the union's common priorities. today, everything seems different. nord stream 2 can be viewed from three perspectives. the first is to ensure that there is enough gas for the eu countries. the second is the political decision whether only one member state can be so strongly represented on the entry of natural gas into the european union. the third point of view is the economic point of view. the transit of gas is an interesting source of financing for some countries, i understand that, they are ukraine, poland, slovakia, the czech republic. personally, i prefer to safely secure sufficient gas, and therefore i see no reason to question that intention in any way. in conclusion, i would like to add that it is only because of some strange behind-the-scenes machinations that a pipeline has not yet been built to bring natural gas directly to the balkans. it is in this context that it would be appropriate to discuss strengthening the security of gas supply to the eu countries.
mr president, exactly 66 years ago, robert schuman set out his vision for a secure europe. it was five years after the end of world war ii, and europe was recovering from the trauma of war. politicians asked themselves how to avoid repeating the same horrors. schuman formulated his vision as follows: 'by the common setting up of the productions of the base and the institution of a new high authority whose decisions will be taken by france, germany and the countries which will join them, this proposal will achieve the first concrete assises of a european federation indispensable to the preservation of peace.' it was therefore clear already 66 years ago that the path to a secure europe would not be a one-off and simple one. it's good to remember this long-term effort. once, in communist czechoslovakia, i dreamed of the free life we enjoy today. the founding fathers had courage, and we must have courage, today, to not be afraid to thank them and to continue in this effort.
mr president, just to underline one aspect, i am very much in favour of fair competition and liberal trade. but what we are facing today is none of that. we are facing trade in sensitive commodities with a country which, as the commissioner has rightly pointed out, is not a market economy. i think that what you can see today in the european parliament is complete unity – complete unity, but also an expectation that, for once, we will act. we will act on the industrial policy and we will act on trade policy instruments, both in this particular case and in future, in general. it is a matter of fact that even in the past, when we were not facing a situation like that, it took 10 months to come to anti-dumping measures at much lower rates, while the us would come to them at a much higher rate in a much shorter period of time. so we have two dimensions here. please address it.
ladies and gentlemen, i was pleased to hear the report from the commissioner, but also from you, where you say that china is an important partner for us, but it is not a market economy. it is unlikely that she will be able to meet the necessary conditions before the end of this year. there is also a consensus among experts that the major industries in china are so interconnected with the state that it cannot be said that they are state-owned. in addition, the overproduction that china produces is also linked to the low social and environmental standard of the products. i am afraid that the various debates on the various legal options for how to proceed after the expiry of the relevant provision of the wto agreement at the end of 2016 are simply incomprehensible to voters and to representatives of the european industry. i can't imagine that, contrary to reality, we would give china the status of a market economy. i think that would be a big trap that we would get ourselves into. it would also be very difficult to find effective safeguards against dumping that the eu could put in place. ladies and gentlemen, there are really two things - a market economy which we cannot accept, but we must nevertheless use all the options available to us to counter chinese dumping.
ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard, we have positive figures here, because unemployment is falling in the euro area in general and in the european union in particular. but that doesn't mean we don't see the risks. because every young person who is unemployed is a missed opportunity and there is a risk of frustration. the european union is aware of this, and that is why we are here today to talk about the need to continue to improve the quality of education and to support young people in their entry into the labour market. the european union is creating programmes, financial instruments to do this, and i call on the european commission to make these instruments, be it erasmus plus or the youth guarantee, more flexible and administratively simpler. it turns out that these tools work, but their potential is much greater for both student and teacher mobility, and we are not making full use of this huge potential that the european union has.
in writing. ‒ this report is a straightforward codification of the existing text on protection against subsidised imports from countries which are not members of the european union. since there was no change in the substance, i had no problem with backing it up. the proposed regulation aims to transpose into eu law the provisions on subsidies and countervailing measures concluded within the world trade organisation in order to ensure the proper and transparent application of the anti-subsidy rules. the regulation lays down clear conditions for determining the existence of a subsidy, the principles governing the applicability of countervailing duties or the criteria applicable for calculating the amount of the countervailing subsidy.
in writing. ‒ the proposal merely consolidates the existing rules, which are based on the world trade organisation (wto) agreements. i also agree with the principle that it is justified to impose a countervailing duty on commodities that are subsidised abroad.
‒ i believe it is very important that every eu citizen has access to information on the activities and outputs of the various eu institutions. in order to ensure better understanding and access to data, it is necessary to codify the individual legislative acts. i therefore support the codification of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union. codification facilitates the search for the necessary documents and helps to avoid misunderstandings, for example when looking for the valid version of a document that has been changed several times. i believe that a more user-friendly system for searching eu documents will lead to a better understanding by eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of codifying the proposal for a regulation on the protection against subsidised imports from countries that are not members of the european union, as it will render the regulation clearer and therefore more accessible to citizens. this regulation is aimed at protecting our internal market from harmful market practices, by ensuring that the eu law integrates and applies the anti-subsidy rules agreed upon with the wto in a correct and transparent way. in other words, these rules clarify under what conditions subsidies are justified and when they are harmful to our market.
in writing. ‒ given that the report concerned a simple codification of an existing text without any change in content, i am pleased that we adopted it in parliament by a clear majority. the purpose of the regulation is to transpose into eu law the anti-dumping rules contained in the agreement on implementation of article vi of the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994. it contains detailed rules concerning, in particular, the calculation of the loss of exports, the procedures for initiating and conducting investigations, including the collection and processing of information, the imposition of provisional measures, the imposition and collection of anti-dumping duties, the duration and review of anti-dumping measures, and the disclosure of information relating to anti-dumping investigations.
in writing. - i got held up. the proposal merely consolidates the existing rules, which are based on the agreements of the international general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt). i also agree with the principle that it is justified to impose a countervailing duty on dumped exports.
‒ i believe it is very important that every eu citizen has access to information on the activities and outputs of the various eu institutions. in order to ensure better understanding and access to data, it is necessary to codify the individual legislative acts. i therefore support the codification of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union. codification facilitates the search for the necessary documents and helps to avoid misunderstandings, for example when looking for the valid version of a document that has been changed several times. i believe that a more user-friendly system for searching eu documents will lead to a better understanding by eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims at codifying the regulation on the protection against dumped imports from countries that are not members of the european union. i voted in favour of this, as it will simplify the regulation and make it easier for citizens to understand and make use of. the objective of this regulation was to shield our internal market from harmful dumping measures, by ensuring that the eu law integrates and applies the wto 1994 agreement on tariffs and trade.
‒ the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia is certainly one of the instruments for maintaining good relations with that country and will also be beneficial for the union, as it will allow eu member states' vessels to fish in liberian waters. the aim is to strengthen eu-liberia cooperation and to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and joint action against illegal fishing. the idea of responsible exploitation of fisheries resources is a fundamental element of the eu's common fisheries policy, which is why i supported the proposal.
in writing. ‒ under the agreement, the european union is to pay liberia eur 600 000 per year for catching 6,5 000 tonnes of fish in 34 vessels. i don't agree with these neocolonial agreements that take away fishing rights from ordinary people in poor countries for the benefit of dictatorial governments.
in writing. i supported the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement and the implementation protocol between the european union and the republic of liberia. this agreement represents an important milestone in the relationship between liberia and the eu. until now, the eu and liberia have cooperated in the fisheries sector only through multilateral agreements. however, there is now a possibility of moving to a bilateral level of cooperation, which will help to achieve the eu's fisheries objectives. i believe that this agreement could bring change, particularly in the area of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, which in many cases has a negative impact on the health of fish stocks and the marine ecosystem. this illegal fishing practice emerged especially after the civil war and has an adverse impact not only from an environmental point of view, but also financially damages liberian fishermen and the state budget. at the same time, this agreement will strengthen cooperation between the union and liberia and, more generally, with the whole of west africa, where large tuna fishing areas are located. the commission's assessment also shows that the eu fishing industry has a strong interest in catching this species in this region. the commission has also concluded that the agreement between liberia and the union on the sustainable fisheries partnership is in line with the principles of the union's fisheries policy and the principles of the union's fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia, as it will bring both economic and political benefits to liberia and the eu. in fact, this agreement will allow the eu to fish in the liberian fishing zone, which is particularly important for the eu tuna fishing sector. in return, the eu provides financial and technical support to the liberian fishing sector, which will benefit the local economy and the coastal communities. this will also be a big step forward in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing, which has grown significantly during the years of civil war, and for spreading the common fisheries policy (cfp) objective of a sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities. finally, this agreement will also be an opportunity to strengthen the political cooperation between the eu, liberia, and west africa more generally.
in writing. ‒ as with cooperation with liberia, it is a very useful tool for cooperation and bringing the eu closer to african countries. it is also a means of achieving the long-term objectives of the eu's common fisheries policy, namely responsible use of resources, sustainable fishing and the fight against illegal or overfishing. both agreements show a positive trend towards the extension of similar union partnerships to west african countries. of course, rigorous monitoring of the implementation of the agreed measures and the adequate use of financial support will be essential to prevent any fraud.
in writing. ‒ the european union is to pay mauritania eur 55 million and an additional eur 16.5 million per year for the restriction of fishing rights for crustaceans in mauritian waters. i don't agree with these neocolonial agreements that take away fishing rights from ordinary people in poor countries for the benefit of dictatorial governments.
in writing. i supported the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol setting out for a period of four years the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the islamic republic of mauritania. in view of the positive steps taken by mauritania, including the acceptance of commitments on transparency and priority access for the european fleet, and also for reasons of long-standing cooperation, it is appropriate to extend this protocol. the positive changes include improvements in the fishing rights of european fishermen, who were, for example, subject to cephalopod catch restrictions under the original protocol. at the same time, a better balance was struck between the financial compensation and the agreed fishing rights. despite some remaining shortcomings, i regard this agreement as a possible model for other similar treaties with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the new protocol renewing the eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement, which grants the eu certain fishing rights in mauritanian waters in return for financial, technical and environmental support to the mauritanian fishing economy. the new protocol, which renews the agreement for four years, will be a major step forward in comparison to the previous one, especially regarding transparency and priority access for the european fleet, as well as regarding the obligation of equal access conditions for non-eu fleets.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for cooperation in the areas of trade, standardisation, research and radio spectrum, but does not cover the sensitive components of the european galileo navigation system. i consider such an agreement harmless, but i do not agree with the overall approach of the eu building its own navigation system. that's why i'm late.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the eu and korea, in order to encourage, ease and improve cooperation in the field of civil global satellite navigation, which korea is an active user of. this agreement will allow for closer collaboration in the domains of radio-spectrum, scientific research, industry, security, standards and certification. i look forward to a fruitful cooperation.
‒ i fully support the eu's cooperation with reliable partners in the field of satellite navigation, which is crucial to the success of the galileo project. the republic of korea as a democratic country is important to us not only because of its geographical location but also because of its market potential and research in space technology.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's resolution on new instruments for territorial development under the cohesion policy for 2014-2020: integrated territorial investment and community-led local development, as it notes that the tangible involvement of regional and local actors from the outset, their involvement in territorial development strategies, their ownership of these strategies and the appropriate delegation of powers and resources to lower decision-making levels is key to the success of a bottom-up approach, and believes that the involvement of partners can also strengthen an integrated and locally driven approach. i was pleased to invite the commission and the member states to provide additional support, training and advice to small and less developed localities, which have only the most limited resources and capacities and for which it may be difficult to cope with the administrative burden and complexity associated with the implementation of these instruments during planning and implementation, and recalled that territorial cohesion must start from the bottom up and must also include small administrative entities, which must not be excluded or discriminated against in any way. i believe that the possibilities of investment in territorial development are not yet sufficiently known in the czech republic and we are therefore missing out on development opportunities.
in writing. it's a useless report full of trite phrases and challenges to activist tax and welfare policies. according to the report, 'youth unemployment is the most pressing problem facing member states, together with the lack of funding for smes'. the report stresses that local and territorial development strategies must address these problems as one of their priorities; calls on the local and regional authorities to introduce tax and other incentives to promote employment and interregional mobility of young people and to give priority to vocational training in partnership with training institutions. i don't think the eu should be talking about the economic policies of individual countries. i think it's better to have low taxes and less bureaucracy in general than to have special incentives and programs for small and medium-sized businesses.
in writing. i supported the report on two new cohesion policy instruments aimed at supporting the development of rural and urban areas. i see their contribution in their emphasis on integrated investments that would help sustainable development. i consider it important that both instruments are built on a bottom-up approach, i.e. to strengthen cooperation between local (rural or urban) public and private actors. this is an opportunity for our towns and cities and it will be up to them to seize it by being able to put forward quality projects in the field of sustainable rural and urban development.
in writing. i supported the report on integrated territorial investment and community-led local development, as european policies of economic, social and territorial cohesion require strong regional and local authorities that are directly confronted with and have an overview of local problems. it is essential that these bodies identify their strategic advantages in an engaged manner, on the basis of which their development strategy for improving the quality of life of citizens can be drawn up. while the measures taken must be in line with the general objectives of the operational programmes and other eu or national development strategies, it must not be forgotten that they must be based in particular on the priorities of local actors. i voted for greater flexibility in european union programmes, but also in national and regional development programmes. it is not possible to create unnecessary obstacles and administrative requirements for the beneficiaries of the aid, thus creating unnecessary barriers to the necessary development. i also supported a public-private partnership to facilitate investment at local level. but i also voted for a transparent and non-discriminatory approach that avoids any potential conflict of interest between the private sector and the public. better communication between the european commission, the member states of the european union and their regions is needed to successfully implement and simplify territorial development policy and to address current challenges. i therefore also supported the necessary increase in coordination between these entities.
in writing. i supported the report which evaluates the newly created financial instruments under cohesion policy. these two instruments, community-led local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti), were created to achieve the objectives set out in the territorial cohesion framework. the main objectives these instruments help to achieve include improving youth employment and improving financing for smes. through clld and iti, these problems should be addressed within the framework of the territorial and local development strategy. the main approach of both programmes is a bottom-up approach. while clld seeks synergies between local and public actors, iti can be used to achieve urban development or also to develop other types of territory. however, for this system to work, regional and local actors need to be involved on a permanent basis in setting up these instruments, while providing them with technical and financial support.
in writing. i supported the report on new territorial development instruments in cohesion policy for 2014-2020. as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, i have looked in particular at measures to combat unemployment. integrated territorial investment (iti) and, in particular, community-led local development (clld) are very important tools for local development and cohesion. in the czech republic, there is a very good experience with their predecessor, the leader programme. at local level, the programme was highly appreciated by the actors, in particular for its relatively less demanding administration and its participatory nature within the so-called local action groups. i very much appreciate that these instruments exist and work, because obviously they can have positive implications for employment as well. we therefore also asked member states to make the clld method available to the european social fund if they had not already done so. however, these instruments are relatively new and not well known. there may also be problems in their implementation. the european parliament therefore called on the commission and the member states to address the problems of the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework and to promote these instruments as much as possible. of course, i'll continue to monitor their effectiveness and their performance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the new territorial development tools in cohesion policy 2014-2020, at i believe that they will render local initiatives more successful. in fact, these tools will allow for local actors and communities to be attributed more responsibility and ownership over their projects, as well as more control over their resources, while receiving technical and financial support from the regional, national and eu levels. i do believe that challenges such as youth unemployment, the lack of sme funding, ageing populations, social inclusion, adapting infrastructures to demographic changes and migration flows, as well as using digital connection to better link citizens and administrative authorities, can best be addressed at the local level.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this report because i am convinced of the positive effects of involving regional and local actors. however, i also believe that local actors need technical and financial support from the regional, national and eu levels. i am personally concerned about the high unemployment rates in many eu member states and regions. in my view, member states should therefore use all available tools in projects that will lead to the creation of high-quality jobs and opportunities for smes. these projects will also contribute to promoting investment, sustainable and inclusive growth and contribute to poverty reduction and social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ this report is intended to increase transparency and improve statistics on economic indicators in the eu, but overall i consider these statistics to be redundant. balance of payments can be found more easily using existing bank statements and there is no need to carry out expensive sample surveys that bother businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on statistics concerning balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment, as i believe that it will strengthen transparency and the level of detail of statistics. this proposal aims at aligning the existing rules and delegation of responsibilities regarding statistics with the provisions of the lisbon treaty to ensure common quality standards and harmonisation, and strengthen reporting and publication requirements. reliable statistics are a crucial tool for the eu and member states to monitor the soundness and legal compliance of economic policies. moreover, as international capital flows have both intensified and gained in complexity in the era of globalisation, statistics are even more important to ensure traceability and avoid fraudulent financial behaviours.
in writing. i think the report on the new instruments for territorial development is very good and that is why i voted in favour of it. the eu continues to attach great importance to helping people living in mountain regions and to developing local communities. the aim is to improve the quality of life in these areas, increase employment and thus reduce the need to migrate for jobs. in addition, the new instruments can build on the best practices of previous cooperation in so-called local action groups. at the same time, the report once again demonstrates the importance of the principle of subsidiarity, which is often best served at local level, and by involving, with union support, those people who know the area and are interested in working to improve their surroundings.
in writing. i supported the european parliament resolution of 10 may 2016 on a cohesion policy for mountain regions in the eu, also because mountain regions contribute positively to sustainable development, to combating climate change and to preserving and protecting ecosystems and the biodiversity of regional ecosystems. the resolution also stresses the need to protect at european level the typical mountain species capable of living in transboundary mountain areas, such as the mountain camel, the mountain goat, the big game, the bear, the wolf or the lynx, and calls on the commission and the member states to draw up plans for the protection and replanting of typical mountain species in their original range. this is important as mountain regions are particularly vulnerable to climate change, hydrogeological risks that have particularly significant impacts in these areas, including due to the increasing number of natural disasters that can impact on surrounding areas and negative consequences for economic development and tourism. moreover, smes in mountain regions face serious difficulties due to lack of accessibility, infrastructure, connectivity and human resources and it was therefore necessary to call on the commission to pay particular attention to the development of smes in mountain areas, in particular those affected by natural disasters and disasters caused by climate change.
in writing. it's just another social engineering to direct subsidies to young mountain farmers. according to the report, creating new jobs in the green economy should be one of the investment priorities of the esi funds, which are intended to support training in areas such as mountain farming and renewable energy technologies. instead of creating these funds, the eu would do better to leave the money in the pockets of citizens, who would then prefer to buy organically farmed products. and farmers could certainly grow their products without eu training.
‒ the european union and its member states have considerable natural resources, as exemplified by the mountain regions. it is therefore surprising that attention to these territories in eu policies, and in particular the europe 2020 strategy, has been minimal so far. i voted for the report on the cohesion policy in mountain regions because we should start making the most of the opportunities these regions offer us. this is not only about a more sustainable energy policy, for example, but also about the creation of so-called green jobs, which are compatible with sustainable economic development and can help social inclusion of the population. the employment problem of the people living in these areas is one of the problems facing my own country, the czech republic. i am convinced that the problems of mountain regions deserve more attention at both national and european political levels. the european commission, in particular, should therefore define mountain regions, present a comprehensive strategy and encourage the use of financial instruments specifically for these territories to help them overcome their specific problems.
‒ mountain regions are often neglected in eu policies, and yet they are perhaps the most challenging environment to live in. despite the difficult living conditions, there is a growing interest in living in mountain areas and the eu approach needs to adapt to this trend. i support the proposal to create a definition of mountain areas in the framework of regional policy, as the only existing definition in the agricultural policy is insufficient because of its unilateral focus. if this definition is established, it will be possible to develop a uniform policy approach at the level of all member states. it will also be important to develop an agenda that will serve as the basis for a more comprehensive strategy. a good and effective example of mountain focusing is the eu strategy for the alps, which links mountain regions and urban areas. i think it's important to preserve the population in these areas while providing jobs for the people who live there, especially in the environment. mountains hold a lot of potential and therefore also opportunities for new jobs that would improve eu employment while contributing to the fight against climate change.
in writing. ‒ mountainous regions represent 30% of eu territory. yet, these regions have been disregarded and have not developed to their full potential. we need to make more out of our mountainous areas, which is why i voted in favour of this proposal. it aims to reformulate a broad and inclusive definition of mountain areas in the context of the eu cohesion policy and equip us with instruments to address the challenges which these areas present. these instruments will encourage community-led local development and territorial investments, the promotion of jobs, economic growth, and accessibility, especially for young people. promoting the green economy as well as the digital economy could prove to be areas of particular interest, and useful to overcome the challenges of attractiveness, connectivity and accessibility in mountainous regions.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support the report presented because cohesion policy rarely focuses on mountain regions in the eu, even though i personally consider these areas to be very important. mountain areas suffer from poor infrastructure and remoteness, leading to a lack of investment and indifference to mountain regions. i am convinced that the rich natural resources and benefits of mountain areas can create jobs that will improve employment in the eu, especially in terms of green jobs that can contribute to the fight against climate change. mountain areas as centres of green growth can themselves be a driving force for sustainable development in the eu. i consider it crucial that these areas receive sufficient support to ensure that they are able to provide year-round employment and economic growth, rather than just seasonal growth.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, commissioner, as you know, it was in 1999 that the council adopted a mandate to negotiate a trade deal with the mercosur bloc. 17 years have passed, and we have still not reached an agreement. in the meantime, some of these countries have even been taking protectionist steps against exports from the european union. so let me come back to the reason for opening these negotiations. mercosur has a population of 286 million, it is the fourth largest trading bloc in the world and it represents an important economic bloc both in the region and globally. for me it is unbelievable that the european union does not have trade agreements with these important economies, such as argentina or brazil, especially as we have advanced in negotiations and upgraded our trade agreements with many other countries in the region. can you imagine that back in 2000 the then trade commissioner lamy was predicting rapid progress on negotiations with mercosur? but after years of inaction we can feel now a fresh wind blowing. we finally have the political momentum on both sides to move forward in these talks. we must take full advantage of it. there are many real economic benefits to be gained for european businesses in the mercosur members’ markets, which encompass our major trading partners in the region. the commission and the member states must be fully committed to securing an ambitious deal with mercosur, but we must also deliver within a realistic time-frame. i look forward to hearing positive news on the exchange of offers so that we may continue to use this chance to move forward in achieving a final agreement. you have our full support, commissioner, to negotiate this deal, but we cannot be negotiating with a 17-year-old mandate for ever. if we miss the current political momentum, i call on the commission to come back to this house and begin a discussion on a new strategy to advance our trade relations with the mercosur countries, even if that were to mean bilateral negotiations with those countries individually.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, the sdgs are often labelled, or rather vilified, as utopian. but i don't think that's the case. take, for example, the demand to eradicate poverty in all its forms everywhere in the world by 2030. i know this may sound unrealistic, but when you consider that the cost of eliminating poverty in the world for an entire year is equal to the cost of armaments for eight days, you realize how little is enough. the hard truth is that poverty can be eradicated, but the will is lacking, especially from the political and economic elites who have contributed so drastically to the current situation. while halving poverty sounds more realistic than demanding the eradication of poverty in all its forms and everywhere, we must not forget that poverty kills more people each year than world war ii did. if we want to get to the root of the problem, then we get to the failing political and economic elites and the unequal way in which wealth is distributed in the world. but we're not talking about that anymore.
madam president, jordan and lebanon have responded to the refugee crisis in a humane and responsible manner. together, these two countries have taken in over four million refugees, more than a third of their total population. let us also remember the countries of the visegrad four. it is a group of countries that often recalls its judeo-christian civilization and the principles of humanism and has its experience of emigration of its population from the time of communist totalitarianism. the visegrad countries also have a gdp several times higher than lebanon and jordan. together, we have a population of over 60 million. yet, the visegrad four have so far accepted only about a thousand refugees. mr. kaczynski recently stated that he would not accept a single refugee for security reasons. the european commission has recently put forward a proposal which makes a significant contribution to ensuring the proper protection of the european union's external borders and thus to security within an area without internal borders. the proposal to establish a european border guard is currently being discussed in the european parliament. i hope that the european conservatives and reformists group, of which the law and justice party is a part, will support this proposal for the security reasons they argue. jordan and lebanon deserve not only our recognition but also continued financial support from the european union's regional fund. the least we can do is make it easier for those who save lives for us.
mr president, after two european parliament resolutions in the last two years, the situation in venezuela has not only not improved but has worsened. only through dialogue can solutions be found to get out of the crisis that venezuela is experiencing today. therefore, there can be no political prisoners. the first step in initiating this crucial dialogue is to pass the amnesty act. i am very concerned about the situation of the venezuelan people. there's a serious humanitarian crisis and people are suffering. i would again ask the high representative to promote more action by the european union to deal with this crisis and, above all, to help the venezuelan people.
member of the commission.– madam president, let me start by expressing my thanks to the rapporteur mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra. he and his team have done a great job in adopting this critical piece of legislation, after three years of tireless work, to reach this compromise. i can congratulate him on the result and express my thanks for the excellent cooperation we had. what makes this regulation critical is that our fight against terrorism is at the very top of the political agenda. 82% of the citizens of europe tell us in a very recent survey that they want the european union to intervene more on terrorism than now. once this regulation is applied in spring 2017, it will give us the right framework for this to happen, first of all, by making europol an information hub for law enforcement in the union. paris and brussels showed this very clearly. information exchange is our achilles heel. member states have to coordinate more closely and effectively. complex investigations have to be supported by sound analysis. europol can have clear added value in this respect. the other major improvement is the democratic scrutiny by this parliament. our new rules will ensure this accountability on europol’s activities, together with national parliaments. the protection of personal data will also be strengthened. i consider, therefore, the outcome of our work on this file to be positive. europol’s legal basis has been aligned to the treaty of lisbon, and the objectives of the europol reform – to make europol more accountable, effective and efficient – have been fully achieved. nonetheless, i would like to refer you to the two declarations that the commission made in council already, which i would like to highlight today as well. the first concerns the governance of europol. we remain convinced of the benefits of establishing an executive board as part of the governance structure of europol and other agencies. we will keep following the situation on the governance of europol, and within the next two years we will examine whether further proposals on this point are necessary. the second concerns the need to ensure coherence between the europol regulation and the data protection reform package. in the light of our recent adoption of the new eu data protection rules, and the upcoming review of the data protection rules for eu institutions and agencies, we need to ensure consistency and avoid duplication. it should be clear, therefore, that functions exercised by the cooperation board set up in this regulation, will in the future be exercised by the newly created european data protection board. i welcome today’s important step and i look forward to hearing your interventions.
ladies and gentlemen, when we vote on this motion, there will be only one motion to vote on, and that is my motion to reject this standard, tabled on behalf of the europe of freedom and direct democracy group. we have no possibility of amending the text at all and i think that is a denial of the principle of parliamentary democracy. originally, a few years ago, the european commission put forward a very different proposal. the merger of europol and the european police college (cepol) was the essence of it. that has all but disappeared and europol has been transformed into a completely new organisation outside this parliament. from an intergovernmental service organisation of police forces, it becomes a police agency, essentially a secret police, subordinate to the european commission, subordinate to the council. the commission may, by decision, transfer data collected by europol to other international organisations. at the last meeting, you agreed that private companies, airlines, would be required to automatically hand over data, account numbers, addresses and names of people. and this new europol will even be able to pass this data on to private individuals and will be essentially beyond our control. the bill tries to pretend some degree of control, but all it requires from the board is a ridiculous thing to have an equal number of men and women. but in reality, it is a dangerous institution, and therefore, please vote for my motion to dismiss.
the question posed by the blue card. - mr. speaker, i don't know if you've read the order or this document. that's why i'd like to know your answer. can you explain to us how europol becomes a repressive agency? have you ever been to europol to look? do you know how europol works? please answer.
commissioner, i disagree with what the preacher said here because it's really nonsense. sometimes things happen in this room, and i think a lot of people have not read the text at all and really have no idea about the work of europol. i personally consider europol to be one of the most important components of european security. as i have seen in the past, its cooperation with the member states is not only lacking in systematicity but also in efficiency. and that is what we are going to try to change now, thanks to this regulation. it must be automatic for the relevant authorities and europol to exchange information and personal data on dangerous and potentially dangerous persons, i stress. how else can we fight crime, organised crime or terrorism and ensure the safety of the citizens of the european union? after all, in today's connected europe, there is no way that data transfer simply won't work. i am therefore a long-standing advocate of strengthening europol, not only in terms of finances but also in terms of competences. this is not possible, however, unless cooperation between the various institutions, both national and european, is reorganised. no organisation can respond flexibly to new challenges and threats if it is not sufficiently flexible. neither extra funding nor any capacity increase will help. only logic can help here.
mr president, i believe that this directive, which has been under discussion for more than three years, is indeed in a position to be supported. it should fulfil the objective of simplifying the rules on entry and stay of third-country nationals for the purpose of study, research. the rules for students and researchers are thus merged and the scope is extended to include trainees, volunteers and au pairs. however, in the case of the latter two, these rules are not binding on the member states and i consider it right that the principle of subsidiarity is respected. such a set of conditions has the potential to attract young, talented people to the european union, which of course promotes mobility. they also make the european union a more attractive environment for talented people from all over the world. i think this is essential to improve europe's competitiveness. in this respect, we are following the example of the united states of america, which has long attracted talent to its territory. i also welcome the fact that the directive gives researchers the possibility of bringing their family members to the european union. this is, i think, the right case for family reunification. i find the possibility for students to remain in the european union for at least nine months after completing their studies or research to be somewhat controversial, but i think there is a reasonable compromise here too. therefore, i support the result.
in writing. - i voted yes. i think it's beneficial to defer regulation of commodity traders in terms of reserve capital and capital adequacy.
in writing. today we voted on a report on the requirements applicable to credit institutions and investment firms whose main business is to provide investment services or to carry out investment activities. commodity dealers are exempted from capital requirements, however this exemption will expire on 31 december 2017. the commission has decided to conduct a single review on the suitability of the system for commodity dealers and the prudential supervision of investment firms in general ('the investment firm review') and to produce a single report on the above-mentioned topics. this step was necessary to ensure the establishment of a coherent prudential framework for all types of investment firms. the review of investment firms is already underway: the commission has requested technical advice from the european banking authority (eba) and the european securities and markets authority (esma) on this matter (eba/op/2015/20). however, the investment firm survey is a complex project that will not be completed by the end of this year. the commission has also concluded that the exemptions from the notification requirement are not necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. so we have to buy time. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. i supported the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on exemptions for commodity traders, which extends the validity of the existing exemptions provided for in the crr. those exemptions, which exempt commodity traders from the large exposure requirements and capital requirements, expire on 31 december 2017. in the meantime, the commission, with the technical assistance of the european banking authority (eba) and the european securities and markets authority (esma), has launched a review to establish a suitable system for commodity dealers. however, any legislation that emerges from this review will probably only be possible after the end of the current exemptions. therefore, in order to avoid a situation in the meantime where there is a jump in the requirements of the crr for commodity traders, it is necessary to extend the existing conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to extend the exemptions for commodity dealers to be exempted from large exposure requirement and from own fund requirements until 2020. this will save commodity dealers from an unstable regulatory environment in the short term, and avoid them from disbursing their own funds that they need to have in order to continue their activities and the related costs of performing those activities.
mr president, it is of course well known that crime knows no borders, and that is why it is important that we too can work together. i think that despite the challenges it faces, europol has managed to earn the respect of being an organisation that should certainly further deepen police cooperation, and i see no indication in the report that has been tabled, which i was happy to support, that we would be moving towards establishing some kind of federal police service. that's not really the case in my opinion. the need to deepen cooperation, to really regulate the exchange of information, is something i think is quite straightforward, and i am therefore glad that this report does not avoid these issues, and i could therefore, i repeat, support it.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the adoption of the new legislation on europol, together with my alde colleagues. i believe that, in view of the growing security threats in europe, it is necessary to strengthen the mandate of this agency. indeed, eu member states should strictly respect their commitment to cooperate with europol and to share information with each other, because only together can european states effectively fight terrorism. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of personal data in the event of a breach of the data protection rules is therefore in line with the commission's proposal.
in writing. in the european parliament legislative resolution of 11 may 2016 on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol), i voted in favour of the amendment to reject the council's position by the european parliament. i had a similar problem here to the legislative proposal on the use of eu pnr data. i think we put too much emphasis on watching our citizens and getting as much information as we can about them. we often have more than enough information, but we are far too lax in our analysis. i didn't want europol (or one of its organs, the iru) to be able to identify illegal content and thereby determine what you read in the newspapers and on social media. all without judicial or national oversight. it is indeed desirable that the member states and their security authorities cooperate to the greatest possible extent, but it is not possible to circumvent the member states by making europol an inviolable body that collects information on innocent people and orders private entities to provide it with information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my own motion to reject the regulation establishing the new europol. as members we had no opportunity to table amendments and if i had not tabled a motion to reject, the regulation would have entered into force without a vote. the commission's original proposal to merge europol with the cepol police academy has gone in a different direction. the original intergovernmental service organisation of national police forces is abolished and europol is established under the same name as a police agency subordinate to the european union. it will collect huge amounts of data, account numbers, addresses, names and other data not only from national police but also client data directly from private entities such as airlines. europol will be able to transfer them to third states and international organisations on the basis of a commission decision. they'll even be able to pass the data to private companies. europol will become a dangerous big brother who will know everything about us. the european data protection supervisor is a thin cover. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. it's not about fighting terrorism, which everyone is protecting themselves from now. we have the police and interpol to fight crime. this is the creation of a dangerous big brother, and i fear the misuse and leakage of such a huge amount of data.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed the proposal for a revision of the regulation concerning europol. the proposal envisages an increase in the powers of europol, and in particular the establishment of a specialised unit within europol to monitor and monitor the content of social networks. the justification is the fight against terrorism. because i'm afraid this is the first step towards a completely unfree internet, i'm not particularly enthusiastic about the idea. the control powers of the national parliaments and the european parliament are also very vaguely worded, and are more of a cosmetic adjustment. i have always supported the establishment of europol and i understand its importance in the exchange of information and experience between police forces across the eu, but i cannot identify with the proposed changes, which is why i voted against in the final vote.
in writing. i supported changes to the europol regulation to bring about more effective cooperation between police forces and thus to ensure greater security in the eu. the changes adopted should give europol a more complete picture of serious crime in the eu, including terrorism, and the ability to identify trends and threats quickly in all areas of crime and to produce better intelligence documents. the simplification of the establishment of specialised centres will also make it easier for europol to support member states' activities in the fight against so-called foreign fighters, the financing of terrorism or the illicit trade in firearms.
in writing. ‒ i am strongly in favour of strengthening europol's powers, especially in the current security situation in the eu. i am convinced that without coordination at pan-european level we cannot effectively tackle the growing threat of terrorism, but also other forms of international crime. europol has been given more powers, and with them more responsibilities. i am pleased that the oversight by the european parliament, but also by national parliaments, has been strengthened, particularly with regard to the protection of personal data. i am missing an explicit obligation for member states to provide data to central databases in the proposal, but the current wording is a long-negotiated compromise and i believe it is in the interest of all eu member states to fully engage in building a common database and providing all relevant data. for the reasons stated above, i voted against amendments calling for further amendments to the text or for the whole legislative proposal to be withdrawn.
in writing. i supported the recommendation to approve at second reading the council's position on the draft europol regulation. the regulation further strengthens and streamlines this already existing organisation for police cooperation to combat terrorism and serious cross-border crime. it helps to better counter the threats that eu member states face together today. europol is already making the eu safer by operating in cooperation with national police authorities and by collecting, exchanging (including with partners outside the eu) and processing data on suspects. it will be able to do so even better after the adoption of this regulation. the adopted regulation also substantially strengthens the role of the european parliament and national parliaments, the directly elected representatives of the eu citizens, in monitoring europol's activities, which i very much welcome. in addition, the regulation provides a robust framework for the protection of personal data with which europol works in its databases, which also requires our support. at the same time, the regulation does not give europol 'agents' enforcement powers which are reserved to member states' police forces, and thus does not restrict member states' sovereignty in sensitive areas of internal security.
in writing. i supported the revision of the regulation strengthening the powers of the european agency europol. the agency is one of the largest analysis centres for serious crime and terrorism in the eu. it is involved in more than 18 000 cross-border investigations every year. europol has recently been focusing, among other things, on combating relatively new and serious threats such as online propaganda and human trafficking. the internet environment associated with terrorist propaganda, in particular by the islamic state, is the focus of europol's specialised centre, the internet referral unit, which has been operational since july 2015. this unit systematically combats hateful content on the internet and removes harmful content in cooperation with the internet service provider. this activity is preventing the radicalisation and recruitment of young people into terrorist organisations. since the launch of the unit, more than 1 700 decisions have been issued, and in 90% of cases, harmful content has been removed in cooperation with specific internet providers. the new european counter-terrorism centre was launched in january 2016. the revision aims to improve and extend the exchange of information between member states, to make the agency work more easily and efficiently, and, above all, to simplify the creation of specialised units to deal with specific threats. the review shall also take into account sufficient safeguards for the protection of personal data and provide for democratic oversight.
in writing. i supported the proposal to reform the eu agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) because i believe it will contribute to an effective fight against terrorism or cybercrime of all kinds. organized crime in particular is now a transnational issue and it is therefore natural that the fight against it requires coordinated international cooperation, capable of deploying rapid response resources in crisis situations. in order to promote the sharing of information between individual member states, europol is obliged to inform the ep, the ec and the council of the status and quality of the sharing of information between member states. it is clear that the protection of personal data is sufficiently guaranteed. as at national levels, access to such data is restricted to authorised persons and the information is transmitted in encrypted form. all eu standard rules apply to the handling of personal data by europol, including the possibility for individuals to lodge a complaint.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the eu agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol), as it will make europol a stronger player in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. concretely, the regulation will increase effective cooperation between supervisory authorities, increase the democratic control of national and european parliament over europol, and clarify europols access to and responsibilities regarding data. i particular welcome the fact that it will allow for better information exchange between member states, as this has, unfortunately, proven a crucial point in the last terrorist attacks in europe. however, i wish the reform had been even more ambitious in terms of cooperation between eu and national level, which would ensure even more effectiveness and avoid unnecessary duplication of tasks. this is however a major step.
mr president, of course, the promotion of the mobility of young people, the exchange of trainees, of people who are educated in their field, i think that is really the right way forward, and i support it. of course, safety-related issues cannot be underestimated. we cannot ignore the question of whether the people who will come here will be properly monitored. however, i believe that security issues cannot completely prevent such an exchange of young people. i can see some risks in them, but we cannot think that we can prevent everything, and on this basis to make the ultimate sacrifice in terms of preventing any contact between universities and scientific institutes is certainly not the right way. i think it's going to enhance the quality of education, the quality of science. not only will some labour reserves be created, but it will really bring a new dimension to our european science. that, i think, is the right course of action, which i repeat, i support.
in writing. this directive resonates with the eu's objective of attracting to its member states qualified and capable workers, researchers or students from third countries who can benefit the european economy and fill labour market gaps. the text provides clearer and simpler conditions for both the entry and subsequent residence of third-country nationals in the eu, and constitutes a harmonised european system that will apply in all member states. i believe that talented students or workers from outside the eu can help member states to improve their competitiveness on the global stage, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this directive summarises the conditions for the admission of third-country nationals to the eu for periods of more than three months for the purposes of research, studies, pupil exchange, paid and unpaid training, voluntary service and au pairs. for the first time, the directive establishes the general principle that an applicant who fulfils both the general and the specific conditions for admission must be admitted by the member state where the application for a residence or long-stay visa was lodged. the directive also defines compulsory and optional grounds for refusal, denial or non-renewal of a residence permit or long-stay visa. the directive guarantees the right to work, to study or to receive other forms of education. after the end of the stay for the purpose for which the residence permit was issued, the applicant also has the possibility to find a job for a specified period. it also provides for access to the labour market for family members of certain categories of third-country nationals and addresses mobility between eu member states. i believe that the directive can make a significant contribution to the desirable migration to eu countries and i cannot fail to mention the successful programmes of the countries of central and eastern europe which, more than 50 years ago, addressed the issues of training, studies and vocational training. if the directive will result in an improvement in the situation of those who want to migrate from eu countries to at least the level of the 1970s in the then socialist countries, then we can only welcome the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the i am very pleased to have been able to support the european parliament's legislative resolution of 11 may 2016 on the council position at first reading on the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, traineeships, volunteering, pupil exchange schemes or educational projects and au pairs. such legislation should prevent, for example, czech au pairs from being perceived in third countries as second-class citizens and thus not having the rights that other foreign workers have merely because their work is of a temporary nature.
in writing. - i voted to reject the motion. i am in favour of flexible travel for the purpose of internships, studies, research, etc., but i am against limiting the rights of member states. i consider that restricting the right of member states to refuse entry to a third-country national is an interference with the immigration policy of the czech republic.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement with the council which improves mobility conditions within the eu, including access to job search after completing a study or research project, and extends the scope of the directive to au pairs and paid trainees. i consider it beneficial that students gain the right to work at least 20 hours per week from the first year of residence and that, after completing their studies/research, students and researchers should be allowed to stay in the territory for 12 months in order to seek employment opportunities. as regards procedural guarantees, member states will be obliged to decide on applications within 60 days, or 30 days for participants in the erasmus mundus and marie curie programmes.
in writing. ‒ at second reading, i rejected the efdd proposal as unfounded and supported the text as originally agreed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, pupil exchange, remunerated and unremunerated training, voluntary service and au pairing, as it will facilitate the conditions for entry and residence in the eu of third country nationals looking to come to the eu for those purposes. this is a much needed measure to attract the most creative minds, entrepreneurs, and intellectuals from all over the world. i am convinced that they will contribute to making the eu more competitive, strengthen its social and cultural ties as well as promote its values beyond its borders. in midst of the debate on migration, i believe that it is particularly important to promote an ambitious legal migration system.
in writing. ‒ simplifying the conditions of entry and movement within the eu for those third-country nationals coming to the eu for the purposes of research, studies, traineeships, volunteering, pupil exchange programmes or educational projects and au pairs is, in my view, the right thing to do. that is why i voted in favour of this report. during their stay in the eu, these people gain a unique opportunity to learn new skills and knowledge that they can apply directly in their home country when they return. this not only supports the development of the country, but also helps to increase cooperation between the eu and third countries.
mr president, it is true that cohesion policy suffers from certain disadvantages, such as the excessive bureaucracy involved in processing applications and in submitting applications in general. cohesion policy is certainly not sufficiently focused on effect, it is often judged very formally. however, all these disadvantages are certainly outweighed by the overall benefits. i believe that this policy is the most important thing europe can do. if the disadvantages, the differences between regions, are removed by pro-growth measures, then it must be said that this policy helps the regions despite all the ills they suffer. a high-level group of experts has been set up to find a formula, how to simplify it in general, how to simplify the use of european funds. i'm gonna be very careful what suggestions they come up with, because i think this is the way. not to abolish cohesion policy, but to reform it.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the european grant policy, i do not agree with the proposed increase in the administrative capacity to deal with grants, i do not agree with the involvement of the european investment bank in this eu policy, nor do i agree with the increase in eu promotion through public information about the cohesion funds.
in writing. - in the context of accelerating the implementation of cohesion policy, i consider it important that the commission, in cooperation with the member states and their local and regional authorities, find ways to effectively combine funding from the structural funds and the european fund for strategic investments. although these are two instruments of different nature, they can complement each other and increase the leverage of investments. the commission should also issue comprehensive guidance on public procurement and the preventive measures necessary to avoid unnecessary errors and irregularities in the procurement process and, consequently, financial corrections and possible cancellation of eu financial contributions.
in writing. cohesion policy is the european union's strongest investment and development tool, with more than €350 billion earmarked for it until 2020. however, as the policy was launched with considerable delays in many member states in the new programming period and the pace of implementation is still sluggish, the threat of not being able to use all its instruments by the end of the period is more than real. it is for this reason that i supported the european parliament's resolution calling on the european commission to analyse and assess the current situation. i think it is extremely important that the analysis also includes a study of the obstacles faced by individual member states in drawing on their resources. i also voted for strengthening administrative capacity at national, regional and local levels to help implement cohesion policy in the future. i also supported new communication initiatives, as it is the lack of information among the public that is one of the blocks that negatively affects not only the implementation of policy itself, but also the scepticism that is often the product of misinformation.
in writing. cohesion policy plays a crucial role in bridging the socioeconomic gaps between eu member states. a successful cohesion policy will lead to an increase in the competitiveness of all european regions. however, the eu and the member states have shown significant delays in implementation and lack of flexibility, which severely limits the effectiveness of this policy. the report as a whole proposes a number of recommendations for accelerating progress in this area and for better implementation of the existing programmes for the period 2014-2020. the eu lacks administrative and absorption capacities at all levels, but these are crucial for faster and more effective implementation of european policies. therefore, both these areas need to be significantly strengthened. the potential of local and regional authorities, whose role in mobilising esi funds is crucial, is also far from being exploited.
in writing. ‒ the cohesion policy is the eus main tool to invest in and develop eu regions and cities, in order to promote job creation, business competitiveness, economic growth, sustainable development, and improve citizens’ quality of life. looking back at the period 2007-2013, the main obstacle to the better implementation of this policy has been the insufficient information available for potential beneficiaries. smes, start-ups and non-governmental organisations, which have the least administrative capacity, have particularly suffered much from this. this is why i welcome this resolution to accelerate the implementation of the cohesion policy, to find ways to speed up and improve the efficient implementation of the policy without losing the quality of the spending. simplifying the policy, decreasing the administrative burdens it implies, and increasing its good governance, among other measures, could be helpful in that regard.
mr president, after a year of discussions, i expect the european commission to be able to change the asylum system so that it is more functional in terms of migrants and provides greater security for citizens of the european union. therefore, this measure cannot be separated from the better protection of the external borders, which should be ensured as soon as possible. in this respect, i welcome the expansion of the eurodac database to improve the identification of persons and the exchange of information between states, as well as the strengthening of the european asylum office to ensure the enforcement of the right to asylum by all actors. however, i consider the introduction of automatic relocation of refugees to be a mistake that does not work today and will not work if this measure is enforced again. the admission of asylum seekers is a matter for the member states alone, and if we do not respect this, we will not be building a union with a future. i want to say to my colleagues from greece, italy and malta that we, the citizens of central europe, are in solidarity, that we know that we are all in this together. and we also know that no one wants to be an asylum seeker, no one wants to leave their home. so we think the solution is to address crises where they arise. the asylum system is only a solution to the consequences, not a solution to the causes.
in writing. the european commission sometimes suffers from the impression that the european union is equal to europe. therefore, the title of this paragraph is misleading, because i do not expect that the proposed reform of the eu's common asylum system will be discussed with the countries of eastern europe and the balkans. i find the idea of such a common system between the eu and belarus, russia, moldova, turkey, kazakhstan and the caucasian republics particularly comical at the moment. the european union's asylum system really needs to be reformed. but the european commission's efforts to dictate to asylum seekers in which country they can and cannot seek asylum must be rejected in principle. strange is the sudden declaration of some countries as "safe". i think it's absolutely outrageous to try to dictate to eu countries how many refugees and from which countries they have to accept on their territory. similar efforts by colonial powers in the 20th century led to tragic consequences. and their current implementation could endanger the cohesion of the eu. the adoption of such a regulation may result in the formal fulfilment of the obligation to expel asylum seekers in the event of non-compliance with the conditions of residence. this is already the case in the eu's migrant-attractive destination countries, such as germany. the whole issue is closely linked to the future of the schengen system. eu legislation must respond to the refugee crisis, but quotas are far from the answer.
in writing. reform of the asylum system is, in my view, inevitable. the eu cannot operate by the old rules and be able to face new challenges, including the migration crisis. i am strongly in favour of harmonising asylum procedures across the eu, and of putting in place and accessing reliable registration systems. but it is not possible to include quota redistribution in the reform of the asylum system. that's not the solution in my opinion. far more important is the establishment of an effective mechanism for the registration and screening of all asylum seekers in the eu.
madam president, i believe that the violation of freedom of movement is one of the most visible threats to the acquired rights of citizens of the european union. the impact on the competitiveness of our businesses, our entrepreneurs, has already been mentioned in the debate. i think if the debate said that this could be an economic collapse, that's maybe a bit of an exaggeration. however, the costs that are being calculated in relation to the threat to the schengen area and freedom of movement are truly alarming. this clearly indicates the political task for the commission and, of course, for the council to commit themselves fully to the rebuilding of the schengen area. the costs that we can measure in the economic plane in negative numbers are, of course, immeasurable in the political plane. how will the loss of one of the most visible features of european integration really affect the thinking of the citizens of the european union? i don't think anyone can even adequately predict such a future vision today. there's a lot of talk about safety. of course, it is a clear political task for member state governments to ensure the safety of their citizens. but it is not possible to sacrifice one of these major visible freedoms, namely freedom of movement, on the altar of security. in my view, it is the political task of all, both member states and the institutions of the european union, to ensure that the return policy is applied consistently, that it is effective and efficient. this is what will ensure the functioning of the schengen area.
madam president, first of all i would like also to reiterate that schengen is just unprecedented; its value cannot be matched and we need to maintain it and of course develop it, but in order to do that, we really need to safeguard the external borders. the commissioner has identified the deficiencies but i think, commissioner, that any member state will always have a difficulty and i think this is just yet one more argument for having a european coast and border guard – a european one, an efficient one, with all the capacities. if we have that, and if we also reform the asylum system but with a strict return policy, and if we are efficient with it and if we will really identify the key issue, which is the real refugees, then we will also have solidarity. we need solidarity and unity in order to perform and to deliver. the 250 000 is going in the opposite direction; i am sorry to say so but that is killing unity. otherwise if we work on these aspects then we will achieve it for sure. one final remark. there were some views from the left of the hemicycle, saying that schengen is basically contributing to terrorism. with that logic we would have to build borders in london, in paris and between the states. that is just a stupidity and a nonsense.
ladies and gentlemen, freedom of movement within the schengen area is certainly a very symbolic advantage of european integration. but freedom is only possible if it is accompanied by responsibility. in this case, responsibility for the safe external border of the schengen area. the external borders are not sufficiently protected and i fully understand the citizens' concerns about security and therefore also understand the temporary measures that some countries within the schengen area have simply taken on their borders. the commission is not proposing anything else at this stage. so until the external border is adequately protected, there will be illegal migration, then these temporary controls will be necessary. i would like to reiterate once again that freedom without responsibility is simply not possible and is not sustainable.
mr president, i read in the euobserver, an online weekly, usually well informed, the opinion of a legal expert of the european parliament, who says that this agreement with turkey is not really an agreement, that it is not legally binding, that it is not legally enforceable and that it is just a political declaration. so i ask, where are we? so the european commission and the european council have hired turkey to do their dirty work on their word, to make promises to them that they do not want to make and cannot make, and now we are in a situation that we do not know how to get out of? i guess so, i guess so. but i think that's unacceptable. here's the situation: the european union is unable and unwilling to protect its external borders, unable and unwilling to crack down on illegal migrants, and the member states are unable and unwilling to modify their social systems that encourage migrants to come to europe. before that, no outsourcing of this problem to turkey will save us, this situation is unsustainable in the long run.
ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the migration crisis and the concerns of the citizens, it is of course appropriate to examine very seriously whether turkey is fulfilling the conditions for visa liberalisation. the concerns of the public are understandable. i would like to say that i am against turkey's accession to the european union, i am for its privileged partnership with the european union. but if turkey can meet the security conditions, then i'm also in favor of visa liberalization. of course, if they meet the essential safety requirements we're talking about here. so far, we know it hasn't, whether it's biometric passports or cooperation with europol. and for us, these are the fundamental conditions that turkey must meet. time is not an issue here, the conditions that are met are the crucial issue.
mr president, i am surprised that the debate on visa-free travel with turkey is somehow being held before these conditions are met. the 72 conditions are not met, that is an objective fact, and it is quite paradoxical that in this situation the commission is already saying that this visa-free regime should be liberalized. but the whole debate is, in my view, complicated by a number of paradoxes. we consider turkey a real partner in the defense alliance. many european union countries are also members of nato, of course, and we consider them to be a good partner there. but if we are talking about, for example, anti-terrorism laws, in this case i think turkey is clearly violating human rights. and i ask myself: what will happen at the moment when the turks do not actually change these laws? will this mean that we will resign to the dogma of human rights protection under the weight of the fact that hundreds of thousands more refugees may be heading our way? i am convinced that the commission should be the one to deal with these questions, because the commission has in fact put its decision forward to a certain extent and has put us members in an untenable situation.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, cbcr is not only part of the oecd beps project, but a key component of our efforts to collect taxes more effectively, and to make sure that the taxpayers pay a fair amount of taxes, regardless of the size and the type of the firms in this case. i believe this is one of the key components as it will provide the tax authorities with data about the taxation on the level of the group and not just on the level of individual countries. this should allow the tax authorities to make a better decision about which tax check of the firms deserves the most attention. this is just the beginning of the process, but i believe we can succeed, and we are actually succeeding. maybe some of you have noticed a recent article in the financial times stating that a lot of firms are warning shareholders about future profits because of expected higher tax checks, not because the taxes would be rising, but because of our efforts to collect taxes better. let me just make three points concerning the report. firstly, it is good that we are separating the debate about public cbcr from the cbcr itself. cbcr should be implemented as soon as possible and the debate on publication will be complicated. secondly, we were facing the problems in debate with the council. i hope in the future that the council will take the opinion of parliament more seriously. lastly, i want to stress that the efficiency of cbcr will depend on how well the national authorities work with the data. they are obliged to use the data to make the tax collection more efficient.
ladies and gentlemen, this report, which has been adopted by the committee on employment and social affairs, is, i think, good news for parents, because it truly acknowledges their irreplaceable role in the upbringing of their children. it also highlights the injustices that we see in society and that we can't solve yet. parents have to cope with lower incomes and higher expenses. this report deals with the parental leave directive and its application and it is right that it does not propose any new compulsory regulation in this regard, but only recommends that the commission and the member states consider certain measures, such as the introduction of two weeks of paternity leave or the extension of minimum parental leave to six months. family policy is not a matter for the european union but for the member states. the european parliament should propose changes and recommendations to help parents who care for children cope with their situation and eliminate discrimination against them.
a greater sharing of family responsibilities and encouraging fathers to become involved in childcare is essential to improve work-life balance. there is certainly a need to strengthen the ability of both parents to stay at home and care for the child after birth. at the moment, however, the implementation of the existing parental leave directive varies considerably from one country to another and overlaps with other types of benefits and leave. however, this only shows how difficult it is to try to regulate such sensitive areas at european level. historical experience, family life patterns and family and work life differ from one country to another. social policy is a shared eu competence and i am therefore convinced that the principle of subsidiarity should be respected in this case. we can see that member states are taking measures to strengthen parental leave without the need for a new directive, the czech republic is now preparing to change parental leave and i am glad that yesterday the czech government also approved the introduction of paternity leave.
madam president, i think the essence of the problem of the crimean tatars does not need to be explained. we all heard about the boycott of the referendum in march 2014, but also about the emigration of some crimean tatars after it. we all want the same thing, respecting the rights of the majority, protecting the rights of the minority. the elevation of the crimean tatar language to an official language by the new government is a step in the right direction. naturally, not everyone is happy about this situation. our task should be to demand from all the dissatisfied, even if they consider themselves the only representatives of the tatar minority, not to use violence. the minsk agreements must remain the basis of the solution. secondly, to avoid falling prey to the emotions of emigrants, who often have bad information and private interests, as was the case in washington during the intervention in iraq, i propose that a group of european parliamentarians be sent to crimea, following the example of the council of europe, to assess the state of democracy and respect for human rights there.
ladies and gentlemen, in may of 1944, stalin deported two hundred and fifty thousand crimean tatars to uzbekistan. more than a hundred thousand tatars died as a direct result of this forced relocation. after russia's illegal annexation of crimea two years ago, tatars have once again become second-class citizens. the banning of their parliament majlis and its listing as an extremist organisation and the overall gross violation of their human rights by the russian occupiers must be seen as another attempt to expel the tatars from crimea. we must not allow a repetition of the tragic history of the 20th century and the rise of new stalinist methods. next week i will be in kiev attending a memorial gathering to mark the 72nd anniversary of the tatar genocide. i will take this opportunity to present to mr chubarov, the president of the mejlis, the european parliament resolution that we will be voting on today.
ladies and gentlemen, i support this resolution which clearly calls the situation in crimea an annexation by the russian federation and a violation of international law. the resolution gives specific examples of violations of human rights and the rights of national minorities, such as the ban on the mejlis. he was the first to be appointed to the post of the so-called 'minister of internal affairs' of the so-called 'lugansk people's republic'. the european parliament calls for support for the mejlis and for the restoration of freedom of expression and media. we consider it important to be able to monitor the situation through non-profit organisations and human rights organisations. i personally met with such representatives, i met with journalists who had to leave crimea. for me, their testimony is one of the main reasons why i can support this resolution. it is right that the european parliament should not remain silent on the situation in crimea.
author. madam president, the gambia is not the only country in west africa where security and stability are increasingly a problem. in particular, the situation in that country is worsening, with the most basic human rights, such as freedom of religion, especially for christians, being violated. it is regularly the scene of arbitrary arrests, ill-treatment, torture and abuse. and freedom of speech or assembly is not even a word in this country. i therefore fully support the european union's move to reduce its financial assistance to the gambia and to keep up the pressure on the gambian regime to address this grave situation. the european union and its delegation there should not only monitor the respect for human rights, but also make a real effort to establish a dialogue with the opposition. if there are still serious shortcomings and human rights violations, we must move to concrete action in the form of sanctions or the freezing of further financial assistance.
madam president, i agree with the rapporteur that we should really support the african union and we should support those specific actors who deserve some opposition in this country. even after the restriction of the aid that the european union is giving to this country, it is 33 million dollars in 2015 and 2016. the european union is the largest aid donor to this country and i wonder if it's acceptable for us to support the government of this country with such amounts. of the total of $900 million of their annual gross domestic product, $33 million is a fairly large sum. i think we should not support a government that treats its people so shamefully, but select members of that opposition movement and of course the west african union.
in writing. today we voted on a joint motion for a resolution on the human rights situation in the gambia, particularly in the context of the upcoming parliamentary and presidential elections. the resolution also draws attention to the critical poverty in the country, where one quarter of the population is chronically food insecure and is dependent on international aid. we also recall the violence and unlawful arrests that accompanied the past elections, and call for the release of political prisoners, expressing our concern at the deteriorating security situation in the country, and in particular in the field of human rights. we want to have a targeted dialogue with the representatives based on the cotonou agreement. i supported the resolution.
madam president, as in the case of the gambia, so in the case of djibouti, it is of course necessary to protest against human rights violations. however, it must be said that the current president, in his electoral masquerades, may have followed the previous president, who ruled djibouti for 22 years. maybe it's a political tradition in this state. the european union's role is not to encourage this tradition. and i agree with what my colleague mr. kelly said. as in the case of the gambia, we should really look at the development aid provided by the european union to that country. i think that the $150,000,000 is a rather large sum, and given the fact that this country does not respect basic human rights and instead uses the fight against poverty as its great enrichment, we should also reconsider these amounts.
madam president, i would like to say that i am against harmonization in the field of direct taxation, but as regards the question of the exchange of information within the framework of the tax obligations of taxable persons, i support this proposal unequivocally and i voted in favour. it is not just reporting issues or cross-border problems related to tax payments. i think the panama papers case has clearly shown that we need to share information. it is important that this method also effectively discourages tax evasion by large undertakings, since it is precisely the small and medium-sized undertakings, which cannot use the routes of the large groups, that suffer or are hindered by this method, and the largest tax evasion is caused by the largest groups.
in writing. - i voted against it. the committee's proposal does not represent a major change in the commission's position. i voted against because i do not agree with the extent of the exchange of company accounts between the member states and the commission.
in writing. i supported the amendment which would make it compulsory for multinational companies with annual revenues of more than czk 20 billion to report to the tax authorities in each member state in which they operate, inter alia, their revenues and profits, the income taxes paid and the number of employees. the tax authority to which this information is delivered is then forwarded to the other states in which the company is established or liable to pay tax. i see the automatic exchange of information as one of the first steps to make it easier for tax authorities to assess the taxation of large multinational companies. the very limited scope of reporting information allowed will not lead to an excessive burden on companies and at the same time will create a fair environment for tax collection. i welcome the fact that the debate on disclosure is separate from the approval itself, which must be done quickly. i would remind you that the benefits of this step also depend heavily on the ability of national tax authorities to work with data.
in writing. ‒ as in the past, i have supported the reporting of tax-relevant information by multinational companies on a country-by-country basis. i think it's a good move to tax where the profits are made. otherwise, it's a financial theft. robbing small and medium-sized enterprises and other taxpayers who have to bear the tax burden for them. i also voted to extend the country-by-country tax reporting requirement to multiple companies. the proposed legislation to enhance tax transparency would have a very limited impact. it concerned only a few per cent of multinational companies, and only those with an annual turnover of more than eur 750 million. i consider it very unfortunate that our colleagues in the conservative and liberal groups have not supported us in this fight for greater tax justice and have thus sided, in my view, with the tax evaders and their middlemen. i also voted in favour of the proposal that the european commission should have access to information that will be shared between the tax authorities of the member states. secondly, to broaden the range of information available to the public. we will never achieve full transparency unless all the necessary information is publicly available.
in writing. the issue of tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance, which has long been highlighted by the social democrats, is finally becoming a relevant topic of public debate in the eu and worldwide. the enormous scale of tax evasion on the one hand and the lack of finance in public budgets are undeniable facts, yet mechanisms for effective and fair taxation of multinational companies are still lacking. i agree that the automatic exchange of information between member states and the commission, which the proposal introduces, is an important tool in this respect with regard to the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. member states' tax authorities need comprehensive and relevant information on multinational enterprise groups in order to be able to react in a timely manner to undesirable tax practices. the social democrats also voted in favour of lowering the consolidated income threshold for the inclusion of multinational enterprises in the scope of the proposal to cover ten times more companies than in the original proposal. however, this is still a partial step, not a sufficient one, towards establishing tax transparency and fair taxation of multinational companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the commission proposal on the mandatory and automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. in the midst of the panama papers scandal it has become even clearer that we need to drastically reduce the scope for aggressive tax planning, tax evasion and tax avoidance if we want to allow all businesses to compete more fairly in the eu and achieve better fiscal standards at an international level. the proposal will improve administrative cooperation between national authorities and increase tax transparency across the eu. i specifically welcome the balance found between necessary reporting and the administrative burden which will provide incentives for multinational groups to pay a fair share of tax where the profits are made without hampering their competitiveness. the country-by-country reporting is required only for multinational groups with annual consolidated revenue higher than eur 750 million and it will be communicated to the commission in a confidential way so that the internal market is not distorted.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this report because the problems caused by tax avoidance have increased significantly and have become the focus of attention in the european union and the world. in my view, it is crucial to increase transparency and strengthen the tools and mechanisms established by council directive 2011/16/eu. i therefore very much appreciate that the proposal introduced in the current directive introduces a new article setting out the scope and conditions for the mandatory automatic exchange of information from country-by-country reports. i welcome this report as a positive step towards greater transparency, especially as regards the need for greater transparency, a threshold for multinational groups that are required to report on a country-by-country basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the tightening of fish labelling. the mandatory information is already extensive, let's leave the additional information to the voluntary. when customers ask for additional information, it's an opportunity for companies to provide it to customers.
in writing. ‒ various studies have shown that there have been significant levels of mislabelling on fish products sold on the eu market, including inside the eu institutions. this is a clear breach of eu regulations and of consumers’ trust and therefore i voted in favour of this resolution on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants and retail. it is necessary to strengthen national controls and develop a traceability system to reinforce the eu market. increased monitoring by the commission of the information provided on labels should help overcome the confusion created by existing different denomination within member states. eventually it will contribute to boost the economic development of coastal communities while encouraging more ethical and environmental production of fishery and aquaculture products.
madam president, this is truly absurd. if we give china the status of a market economy, we can better fight its unfair practices. but that cannot justify us granting this status to this economy in order to better combat its unfair practices. i was against it, i think china didn't meet all the criteria, the five basic areas just weren't met, and for that reason, it can't be given that status. on the contrary, the commission should be called upon to develop better tools to combat these unfair practices. it is not just an anti-dumping issue, but of course an environmental issue, environmental damage, which has far-reaching consequences for the global state of the environment. i think these issues are very much tied to that status, and we can't rule out that china will eventually work its way to that status. but certainly not in the current situation.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported the proposed text of the resolution. whole sectors and thousands of jobs within them are waiting to see where our further considerations of china's possible market economy status will lead. we are still lacking a plan of action, and i expect the european commission to present it to us shortly. i believe that the eu must have an interest in protecting our domestic environment where it faces unfair competitive pressures or unfair trade practices that are not part of international trade. it is necessary to maintain the possibility in the eu to apply trade defence measures, if necessary, at least at the level that exists today. i also believe it is essential that we coordinate closely within the eu with our main trading partners, such as the usa, canada and japan.
in writing. ‒ the transitional measures for the calculation of chinese dumping will end in december this year, and the eu therefore needs strong tools to protect its market from chinese dumped products. that is also why i voted for this resolution. there is a need to ensure fair price comparability and a level playing field for our industry. the result should be a balanced proposal that takes into account the interests of heavy industry as well as importers and transporters who need access to foreign products.
in writing. - i voted against it. i see protectionism in the proposals for the so-called market status for china. the eu has sufficient instruments in international agreements to prevent anti-dumping or countervailing duties on subsidised imports of products or steel from china, if such subsidisation is proven. but we can't blame china for helping corporations with government loans and artificial currency depreciation when we in europe are doing the same. restricting imports could trigger a trade war, china could also restrict imports from europe, and we'll all pay for it.
in writing. today we voted on a resolution that responds to the commission's intention to grant china market economy status. while i fully respect china's economic development, the size and strength of its economy, i don't think it's a market economy as we know it in the neoliberal sense. the state still has a high degree of power to intervene in the economy. i don't think china would meet the wto's requirements for such status. last but not least, i am worried about the fate of tens of thousands of jobs in europe, as well as the possible emergence of a dependence on raw materials and products from china, such as the completely liquidated footwear or textile sector in the czech republic under the pressure of cheap imported products. that's why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. i supported the resolution which states that china does not currently meet the conditions for market economy status and that until it does, the eu must take this into account in its trade policy. the situation is quite complicated from a legal point of view, and therefore the content of the impact study, which the commission is expected to come up with in july, will be important. in this context, the commission should also address the question of how we will be able to use certain trade practices such as tariffs in the future to protect our market in cases where chinese competition is not fully fair. moreover, i think it is important to remember that this is not just about the so-called market status of china which is not a very accurate description of the situation , but also about what the eu's trade relations with china will look like in the future. i stress that we must act quickly and effectively, for time is running out.
in writing. ‒ while i am aware that trade between the people's republic of china and the european union is up to a staggering eur 1 billion a day, i am of the view that china cannot be automatically promised market economy status by the end of 2016. chinese production, which unfortunately cannot yet be described as a market economy, is already a significant problem for several economic sectors in the european union, which could be further exacerbated by the new status. while the strategic partnership between the european bloc and china is very important, it is equally important to uphold the principles of free and fair trade and investment. i supported the european parliament's resolution, as china should be granted market economy status, but only after all five conditions have been met. these conditions are not met today and it is therefore appropriate that the european union continues to apply the non-standard methodology for the determination of price comparability in anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations concerning imports from china. it is also appropriate that the commission, which is responsible for the trade policy of the european union, coordinate its follow-up to this case with its other trading partners.
in writing. ‒ under the current circumstances i am against granting market economy status to china and therefore fully supported this resolution. while i am very much in favour of fair competition and trade, it is clear that china does not yet meet all the criteria for qualifying as a market economy. i believe that such a decision should be based on sound legal analysis and a thorough impact assessment, rather than on premature and unsubstantiated conclusions. we see already that the overcapacity of the chinese market has a strong and negative social, economic and environmental impact in our economy, especially on the steel sector. our industry needs actions from our side and i am asking the commission to revise our trade defence instruments to ensure a level playing field in full compliance with wto rules.
in writing. ‒ giving china market economy status would threaten europe's energy-intensive industries such as steel. it would not be able to compete with subsidised chinese production, even due to excessive environmental and other eu regulations. china does not meet the criteria for status, and that is why i supported the european parliament's resolution.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion. the eu-china partnership, in which free and fair trade plays an important role, is very important, yet there are objective arguments that china is not a market economy. in particular, china does not meet the five market economy criteria set by the eu. as long as china does not meet these 5 criteria, the eu should continue to use the non-standard methodology for assessing chinese import prices under the protocol on china's accession to the wto. i am in favour of the issues related to the granting of market economy status being discussed at the upcoming eu-china summit.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the eu calling on member states to allocate 9.7% of gdp to international aid. we can help poor countries better by opening up international trade. state development aid doesn't work and distorts markets in poor countries.
in writing. the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the sustainable development goals were adopted by the un general assembly in september 2015. it is a renewed international commitment to eradicate poverty, redefine and modernise our development strategies over the next 15 years. the document contains 17 new sustainable development goals and 169 targets, which strike a balance between the three dimensions of sustainable development - environmental, social and economic - in areas such as poverty, inequality, food security, health, sustainable consumption and production, growth, employment, infrastructure, sustainable management of natural resources and climate change, as well as gender equality. a full range of resources, both domestic and international, public and private, are needed to successfully deliver this programme. all countries must contribute a fair share, taking into account their level of development, specific conditions and capacity. the own and mutual responsibilities of states will be central to the agenda. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the resolution also contains what i consider to be a very important call for the eu and the member states to confirm their intention to allocate 0.7% of gni to official development assistance and to present a timetable for gradually increasing official development assistance to achieve this 0.7% target. unfortunately, funding for development programmes such as the un world food programme and the eu trust fund for syria and africa has so far fallen short of expectations and significantly below the level of commitments made. this is why eu member states must make a significant contribution in this area if the fight against poverty and conflict in the world and the related causes of the protracted migration crisis is to be successful.
in writing. given the importance of european and global development policy, i supported the resolution on the monitoring and the current status of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals. it is necessary that the foreign affairs council of the european union develops a common position in this regard, which would serve as a starting point for the next high level political forum. it is probably not necessary to point out that, although there has been a general decline in poverty over the past decade, there are still some 900 million people in the world today who have to survive on less than $1.90 a day. the provision of basic conditions for a dignified life and the satisfaction of the most basic human needs is therefore often out of the question. i therefore called on the european commission to come forward with a proposal for an overarching strategy for internal and external policies, the development of which should be consulted by all relevant parties. this includes civil society, whose role in providing development assistance is indispensable. i also supported the renewal of the historic commitment of member states to contribute 0.7% of their gross national income to official development assistance. only five member states have now made this commitment. as in other areas, i believe that if the member states had been more conscientious and fulfilled their commitments, europe would not be facing a crisis of this magnitude today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the follow-up and state of play of the agenda 2030 and sustainable development goals, as i believe that it is crucial that the eu adopts a coherent and common position to ensure its leadership on this ambitious agenda. the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals embody a courageous international commitment to eradicate poverty and develop new development strategies for the next 15 years, and we should work hard to formulate an eu sustainable development strategy to play our part in delivering on its objectives. democratic scrutiny over the process will be key to the strategy’s success, which is why i would like to see the european parliament being more involved in the formulation, implementation and monitoring of the process.
in writing. ‒ i fully support measures introducing clear and transparent labelling of products sold directly to consumers, especially when it comes to food production. having said that, before introducing such measures, we have to assess fully their potential impacts on all the parts of a supply chain. it is perfectly reasonable to come up with compulsory labelling of fresh or frozen meat products, however the resolution added also products containing milk or meat and that could be, in my view, rather complicated for our producers. i am not convinced about the added value for the consumers. i would prefer to leave them liberty to decide whether labelling of origins of those ingredients should be or not present. that is why i voted against the resolution.
‒ i support the requirements for transparent labelling of products with regard to the country of origin. however, i consider that such measures must not impose a disproportionate administrative burden on food business operators. such measures are primarily aimed at providing consumers with information about products, so labels should primarily remain legible and understandable, not misleading. i would therefore prefer to have the indication of the country of origin for drinking milk or meat and milk as ingredients of a product on a voluntary basis. that is why i did not support the motion for a resolution calling for mandatory labelling.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the tightening of mandatory labelling on foodstuffs, such as the obligation to always indicate the country of origin of milk and milk-containing products. if that's the information that consumers want, it's an opportunity for companies to voluntarily provide it. the scope of mandatory data is already so wide that it is rather confusing and counterproductive for consumers.
in writing. today we voted on a report on the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of certain foods. i think consumer awareness is of great importance. the consumer must be sufficiently informed about where a product is manufactured to make a genuinely informed choice. human health comes first. knowledge of the origin of a product can give consumers an idea of the quality of the product, especially milk and meat, which are products that consumers buy almost daily. according to the 2013 eurobarometr survey, 84% of consumers consider it necessary to indicate the origin of milk, including in milk products. i voted in favor of the bill.
in writing. the indication of the country of origin can be useful information for consumers who indicate in surveys that they would welcome this information for a wider range of foods than for beef, pork, poultry and sheepmeat, where this indication is already provided. on the other hand, the increased costs for producers and the question of feasibility in general must be considered, particularly in the case of multi-ingredient foods, where the indication of the origin of each individual ingredient could lead to a rather long list. i therefore favour an approach which does not subject all food to a single system of designation of origin but which distinguishes between single-component food, where designation of origin could be compulsory, and multi-component food, where it could remain voluntary.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the mandatory indication of the country of origin for certain categories of food, by which we repeatedly call on the commission to submit a legislative proposal for the mandatory indication of the origin of meat in processed products, but also, for example, the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for all types of milk for drinking or milk products. not only is this information required by more than 80% of consumers, but by providing transparent and understandable information to consumers, we can contribute to the fight against fraud in the food sector and to achieving a level playing field in the internal market. it is important to remember that consumers do not want to be labelled 'made in the eu', but want to know the specific country of origin.
in writing. i did not support a resolution calling for mandatory country of origin labelling for certain foods. the rules currently in force make it compulsory to indicate the origin of certain types of meat, fish, fresh fruit and vegetables and others. in my view, this adjustment is sufficient. the consumer has sufficient information and undertakings wishing to indicate the origin of other foods can do so on a voluntary basis. some actually do, and they use that as a competitive advantage. but to make it mandatory in such complex cases as processed meat products would place a disproportionate burden on them. and for most consumers, the complex and lengthy listing of the origin of all types of meat (indicating both the country of rearing and slaughter) on the packaging of a meat product would have no meaning. there are, of course, cases where the introduction of mandatory origin labelling would be reasonable for consumers on the one hand and feasible without imposing an undue financial burden on producers on the other, for example extending the list of meat types to include game or farm animals. but the motion for a resolution combines a few acceptable proposals with a large number of unacceptable ones, and that is why i could not support it as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foods. considering that labelling products is already a common practice and that the eu already has the highest standards of food quality and security worldwide, i consider that mandatory labelling will result in increased protectionist behaviours. in addition, it will lead to significant additional administrative costs, particularly for smes, and an increase in the price of products which will outweigh the benefits of such a measure.
in writing. ‒ any further regulation will need to strike a reasonable balance between consumer awareness and unnecessary financial and administrative burden on food producers. i do not think the text is balanced, and that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the report as presented because it proposes some measures contradictory to our national legislation in this area. i believe there should be more emphasis put on national decision-making processes when it comes to modalities and provisions on parental leave.
in writing. i appreciate the attention that the european parliament and the rapporteur have paid to the issue of parental leave and reconciliation of work and private life. i consider initiatives to promote reconciliation of work and family life and to promote return to work to be very important. i prefer non-legislative initiatives, positive motivation and the removal of obstacles. the european union should uphold the principle of subsidiarity in this matter. i see no reason for european legislation to deal with issues such as men's use of parental leave or their share of housework. i am also not entirely convinced that the extension of the minimum length of parental leave follows current trends and is consistent with the objective of facilitating return to the work process. for these reasons, i could not support this motion and abstained.
in writing. ‒ while i fully agree that maternity or parental leave is a fundamental right and a benefit for both parents and children, and that reconciling motherhood and working life is a topic worthy of our attention, i do not think that there is a need to legislate on these issues at the level of the european union. i think that given the different historical experiences, the different approaches to the family and the different traditions in the countries of europe, it is important to think about the principle of subsidiarity and to leave the decision to the individual member states. the union may, by means of other non-legislative initiatives, call for the harmonisation of the conditions for parental leave and facilitate the reconciliation of work and maternity. however, in my view, such incentives should be based on the principle of voluntariness. for the reasons stated above, i could not support the motion and therefore abstained.
in writing. today we voted on a report on the right to parental leave at eu level, at least for a minimum duration. the aim is to introduce a system that would also motivate fathers to stay with their children for a period of time on parental leave without harming them in their jobs and when they return to work. i personally support this proposal, but only in the form of minimum harmonization. i believe that we have very high standards in the czech republic. i support a system that guarantees parents at least a minimum of rights and that is most beneficial to the children. i am also in favour of a system which allows flexibility in which parent stays on leave and i am also in favour of the possibility of choosing from a number of alternatives. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ whatever the best length and amount of maternity or paternity leave, the report is an unacceptable interference with the social policies of the member states. i also don't agree with calls for compensation for same-sex parents to achieve work-life balance. we respect that a child has a father and a mother, but talking about same-sex parents is playing god. parents can only be a man and a woman.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the application of the parental leave directive, which also indicates in some points the possible directions for changes to this legislation. i agree with the recommendation to consider extending the minimum length of parental leave from 4 to 6 months by ensuring better coordination and accessibility of leave systems in the member states (maternity, paternity and parental leave) and with the call for a proposal for an eu directive on a minimum of two weeks of paternity leave. improvements to existing legislation should be sought that emphasise the importance of childcare while facilitating the reconciliation of family and working life for both parents.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain from voting on the report on the framework agreement on parental leave, which calls on the member states to better implement the common rules on minimum parental. this is because i believe that decisions in this area should be left to member states individually. while i fully agree that parental leave is a fundamental right and essential for mothers, fathers, children and society as a whole, the eu has no competence on the matter and conditions of parental leave should therefore be decided upon accordingly, at a national level.
in writing. - i did not support the resolution. i believe that this area should be left to the competence of the individual member states, which have different cultural traditions and social conditions for parental leave.
in writing. ‒ i support the report presented. i am convinced that social security is a matter for the member states. the political debate should also focus on non-legislative initiatives aimed at joint action with member states and civil society to highlight the role of parents and promote work-life balance. i believe that in order to achieve a work-life balance that is gender balanced, it is necessary to promote the individualisation of the right to leave and compensatory measures aimed at promoting the role of fathers. member states should aim to remove obstacles to returning to work after long parental leave in order to avoid exclusion from the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that it is extremely necessary we act against any criminal activity which involves disgraceful trafficking of human beings, their exploitation and abuse. victims of these activities need to have a proper protection, legal and social, in all member states and must be sure that there are organisations, both governmental and non-governmental, that stand by their side.
in writing. ‒ between 2010 and 2012, the eu recorded over 30 000 victims of trafficking in human beings, 80% of whom were women. although there has been visible progress in the fight against international smuggling gangs, legislation protecting victims of trafficking in human beings is still poorly implemented in the member states. victims of trafficking groups should not be treated as criminals, they need understanding and compassion, they should have access to safe accommodation, legal assistance and support in returning to normal life. human trafficking has no place in our century, which is why i supported this report.
in writing. - i got held up. the report contains nothing but empty phrases about the fight against human trafficking. human trafficking is a deplorable crime and the police should be strict about it. this report will do nothing to help. on the contrary, european policies such as schengen or visa-free travel for turkey will only further facilitate the volume of trafficking in human beings and children. i don't agree that states should pay special attention to the needs of transgender people in detecting human trafficking. the state should treat all adults equally, but children deserve special treatment. different groups of adults are vulnerable, and there is no need to treat transgender people in a particular way.
we voted today on a report which deals with an important issue, namely human trafficking. it is a gross violation of fundamental rights as well as of the human dignity and physical and mental integrity of the victim, often with consequences for the rest of his or her life. it is committed primarily in the form of organized crime, driven by high demand and profits estimated at approximately $150 billion annually. the high percentage of children is also alarming, with 16 percent of the victims being children. i welcomed the fact that the commission had created a website to combat trafficking in human beings, as it is the internet that is becoming the main challenge in the fight against this serious crime. international cooperation is needed to combat this phenomenon. i supported the report.
in writing. i supported the report on the implementation of the directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and on the equal protection of victims of trafficking in human beings, which, in the context of a serious global and european problem, highlights the vulnerability of women and children and the need to take more effective action to protect them from this dangerous type of crime and its consequences. one of them should be the provision of legal aid in different types of proceedings, not only criminal but also other types of proceedings in which legal protection can be sought. member states should also ensure that victims of trafficking in human beings have adequate access to specialised services such as health and psychological care.
in writing. ‒ between 2010 and 2012, the eu registered over 30 000 victims of trafficking, 80% of them women. the 2013 eu anti-trafficking directive was a great step forwards towards giving victims of human trafficking tailored support. despite this legislative progress, however, the directive has been implemented only very poorly by member states. this is why i voted in favour of this report which analyses the level of implementation today. the vulnerability of the newly arrived migrants in europe is a reminder that human trafficking operates without regard to national borders, which is why we will be strongest if we combat this crime at the european level. i hope that this report will give a new impetus to accelerating the implementation of the directive, to better protect and support its victims, and diminish the level of trafficking of human beings in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i support the report of the european parliament. this report is also important because of the migration crisis. it is an undeniable fact that women and children can be forced into sexual services in exchange for protection, to survive and advance on their migration journey and to provide for their basic livelihoods. these victims need to be helped. i am personally concerned that the use of the services of victims of trafficking is not yet considered a criminal offence in all member states, although i am aware of the fact that it is difficult to prove such acts from a judicial point of view. on the contrary, i welcome the fact that the commission has created a website to combat trafficking in human beings, which contains a database of projects that are financially supported by the eu in the eu and other countries.
mr president, i would also like to begin by expressing my regret that we are unfortunately only dealing with such a serious subject on thursday afternoon. however, i was pleased to hear the commissioner's opinion, which clearly shows that the european commission is dealing with this problem. i'd appreciate that, although i feel like i might have to add to that. this topic, which sounds a bit remote in the czech republic, for example, because the czech republic has not been affected by this problem, has indeed affected many central european countries, but not only central european countries. this is mainly the case for citizens who have recently acquired large-scale mortgages in foreign currencies. in fact, foreign mortgages exceeded domestic mortgages in some states. the motivation was therefore, as already mentioned, the low interest rate. unfortunately, however, the calculations of these citizens did not work out too well, as the strengthening and weakening of individual currencies, despite the absence of changes in interest rates, forced them to pay much higher amounts than they had originally anticipated. some eu member states have chosen to address the consequences of this widespread phenomenon by means of retroactive measures, for example by converting loans in foreign currencies into loans in domestic currencies. first of all, it must be said that the conduct of those states threatens one of the fundamental principles on which european law is based, namely the free movement of capital. it also directly affects the second principle, which is the protection of the rule of law. i say this even though i have some sympathy for the efforts of some member state governments to address the negative social consequences that result from these bad decisions by their citizens. in any event, the retroactive nature of such measures must be rejected. the way forward is primarily through prevention, preventive action and strengthening the financial literacy of the public. we cannot support drastic measures that undermine investor confidence and ultimately destroy the principles of european integration. but i don't want my speech to sound like there's no problem in this area. on the contrary, the problem i have encountered is, for example, the abusive nature of the provisions of credit agreements expressed in foreign currency, according to which a different rate is used to determine the amount of the loan than the rate at which it is repaid. this is the case in hungary, which has been examined by the european court of justice, which recently opened the way for the annulment of clauses of this type, which are only beneficial for financial institutions and harm citizens in the position of consumers. the commissioner also spoke about consumer protection. i am glad that the commission is aware of this. i think we should strengthen consumer rights, but at the same time not touch those principles that the rule of law is based on.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to thank the commission vice-president for coming to this house, but above all for proposing these new legislative proposals and communications. mr vice-president, i have to say you are doing well: keep it up, and please keep pushing all the institutions, including the council, to deliver on the digital single market. the adoption of several proposals this week is a good sign that the commission is serious in its efforts to make europe a leading part of the digital revolution. but, mr vice-president, i have to say that not all proposals have been winners with everyone – most, but not all. while my group fully supports the digital contracts proposals, i encourage you to complete the refit exercise as soon as possible so we can unblock both of these files. on portability, a wonderful and straightforward proposal, we are seeing attempts to introduce extreme verification systems that would track users in order just to give them the right to watch a movie. the alde group will fight for a balanced text but we will need your support. as to your proposals today, we welcome the proposal on unjustified geo-blocking and fully endorse to fight against discrimination between different eu citizens. when combined with greater transparency in parcel deliveries, we get closer to a single market that is built on trust and respect between consumers and businesses, and this is vital for e-commerce. but, mr vice-president, we will need more convincing on the communication on platforms and any further actions arising from it. the definition of platform is so wide that almost the whole internet fits inside it. this is a recipe for over-regulation and this must be prevented.
i consider the enforcement of consumer protection rules to be one of the main priorities of single market policies, because even the best consumer legislation cannot function without proper enforcement. from a series of consultations with representatives of supervisory authorities and consumer organisations, i have observed that there is great potential to strengthen and improve cooperation between public authorities at all levels in the enforcement of consumer protection rules. i also think it is important to look for new ways to strengthen and improve consumer law enforcement across the eu and member states, for example through greater involvement of consumer organisations. i therefore welcome the legislative review of the regulation on consumer protection cooperation and believe that the discussion here in parliament and among the member states will lead to an improvement in the existing framework for cooperation between the actors mentioned. i would also like to stress the value of coordinated control actions within the internal market and i believe that we should make greater use of this instrument both for dealing with cross-border cases and as an appropriate platform for sharing best practices in the fight against fraud in individual member states. while today's proposal is presented as part of the digital single market strategy, please bear in mind that effective enforcement is far from limited to the online environment.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, let me start by saying that clearly the dutch presidency does not attach that much importance to the g7 summit, but i am glad that the commission does. i also share a lot of what the vice-president has said on a number of important points – i think points that are relevant for the agenda, points where the eu has a lot to show. against the background of the all the crises that we are facing i think that there are plenty of positive messages, and i am glad that you have raised this. i also appreciate what you have said about investment, structural reforms and of course sound finances, as well as the distortion of the market and the response the eu has to make in this respect. but you have also used the word confidence, confidence in the markets – i would use ‘confidence’ in a different context: confidence in the g7. i think that the reality is that from the last summits of the g7 we do not have that much to cheer about. the g7 for me is an important forum and it can be a very successful one, but there are ingredients which are absolutely key. problems identified – we have mentioned some of them and i think we have plenty of those. then we need to be able to arrive at a certain degree of consensus if not unanimity. that seems to be much more problematic, which brings me to the third ingredient, namely that it might be key – and that might be an opportunity for the eu, not just on concrete issues, but in general – to take up leadership. clearly what the g7 is lacking in recent years is leadership, and the outcome of the g 7 reflects that. that is a reality, and if we look at the agenda, the agenda is full and relevant, but we already know in advance that it is going to be extremely difficult to agree on the common growth strategies. the ministers were unable to agree on it. hopefully the summit will do better, but on one of the key points on the agenda, clearly we are unable to agree or we have difficulties. so i would expect president juncker and president tusk to show leadership in this respect and not just to show in our windscreens what we can be rightly proud of, but really take up the leadership and deliver. we are not delivering and i think the public expects that. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, if i spoke of leadership i meant it ‘en bloc’. i think that all the issues that are on the agenda are absolutely relevant. but leadership also means that we are able to find an agreement on all those issues. leadership does not always mean by definition that we are well ahead while the rest of the world lags behind. and on climate change, relevant as it is, we need a global deal, and we need everyone to really put in the effort so that we have a harmonised effect.
commissioner, it's been three years, we're finally going to see each other. i, on a personal level, am very pleased that you have brought us the news today that you will keep your word of february this year. i'm very happy and i look forward to working with you. but the european commission, not you personally, but the european commission, first of all, has not respected its obligations under the biocidal products regulation. she didn't submit what she had three years ago. then the european commission did not respect the european court of justice's decision, special. the commission has positioned itself as the guardian of the treaties, so a few questions arise: (1) why did the commission choose to disregard the judgment of the european court of justice and complete or work towards completing the european impact assessment instead of presenting the criteria as required by the court of justice judgment? (2) who is responsible for this decision? is it the college, is it you personally, your predecessor, is it president juncker, vice-president timmermans, who specifically? that's the answer we want. i know i'm not gonna get it today, but maybe someday i will. how does the european commission intend to use that impact study when the criteria must be based on science? that's all i know. last but not least, the outcome of the april scientific conference in berlin, where world experts agreed that potency is not a relevant or scientific criterion for identifying endocrine disruptors. so my key question today is: is the commission, and i mean especially the commissioners and super commissioners who do not have endocrine disruptors in their portfolio, going to take this scientific consensus into account when deciding which of the road maps will ultimately be chosen?
let's just summarize the facts, and i'll add a few more facts to what we just heard from our colleagues. endocrine disruptors cause cancer, they affect fertility, they even affect obesity. even if i were to exclude the thousands of people who die every year from these substances, which i cannot, the estimated economic impact alone of exposing people in the eu to these substances is twice as high as the impact of mercury and lead pollution. regulation (eu) no 528/2012 was therefore adopted to prohibit the use of those substances. what's the matter? nothing, we are waiting. we've been waiting at least two years, commissioner, for you to take office. i understand that you have strong support here in parliament, but you must realise that because of these missing criteria, it is we in parliament who have to deal with the re-authorisation of dangerous substances such as phthalates, glyphosate, etc., by the salami method, ad hoc objections, playing detective and scientist, in order to at least protect the health of the european population. i don't think you're worthy of it, nor we. we all have to start doing something together, and you do.
the energy union must be seen through the eyes of the consumer and the issue of reasonable electricity bills is undoubtedly one of the most important issues. the report on the table contains some positive points, such as the use of own energy resources. unfortunately, he also has a number of proposals that are unacceptable to me. of course, i can see that there is a phenomenon where the poorest part of the population can't afford to pay for energy. but: do we need regulatory action at eu level? do we need a europe-wide definition of energy poverty? i'm sure you didn't. after all, aid to the needy is primarily a matter for the social systems of the member states. the problem of high energy prices can be solved by an energy market. but we should look in the mirror first. the third energy package is not fully implemented in all countries. the question is also to what extent the support for renewables, which is also paid by our citizens, contributes to consumer prices in many member states.
mr president, i will be very brief today, partly because i can subscribe to what our alde shadow, and also a number of other colleagues, have said and partly because i am losing my voice today. so i will just make a few points. i would like to say to my colleague mrs griffin that i have very high respect for her, and she knows that. i must say that her report does contain a number of very relevant, useful elements which i am happy to support, but it is also a matter of fact that it does go beyond what i think we should be dealing with at european union level and here in the european parliament. as has been said, we have poor people in the european union. that is a fact – some more, some less – but it is also a fact that our economies and our industries need restructuring – that we really need to have policies that are oriented on growth, and we need to improve the business environment, the entrepreneurship skills, etc. if we still have a certain percentage of our citizens at poverty level, then this should be addressed by the national member states through their measures. yes, there is a lot to do at european union level. in my opinion, the commissioner has described this, calling its shortcomings very precisely. by all means, energy union, energy diversification etc. but let me stress and finish by saying that what we really need is a new energy market design, because we have a distorted market. this is something that we need to focus on. it does not function the way it should, and obviously we are then facing lack of competition and high prices that some people, even with support, cannot afford.
the question posed by the blue card. i have a simple question for you. do you think that the problem of energy poverty is a problem that the eu as a whole, and the commissioner in particular, should address, or is it the sole responsibility of the eu member states?
i am aware of our obligation to create a single energy market and of course the energy union is already a long-standing remnant of what the eu was supposed to create. i am very pleased that the commissioner is proceeding very actively in this matter. on the other hand, commissioner, i think that the pharmaceutical weights which the eu will retain, which it will regulate from the central level of the union and thus to some extent interfere with the competence of the national states, and which will therefore be left to the sovereign national states, must be weighed very carefully. in my opinion, it is really important to proceed de facto on those pharmaceutical scales in this matter. you have my full support in having the firm belief that you will succeed in this task. when it comes to energy poverty, i don't really care if we say that energy poverty and access to energy is a basic social right. i think it's justified in this day and age.
we will certainly agree that it is essential to tackle the problem of energy poverty, which is affecting more and more people in europe, in the context of the energy union. in the case of electricity, energy poverty leads to defaults. whereas in the case of thermal energy, people are drowning in cheap and unfriendly fuels that harm both them and the environment. in this context, however, it is also necessary to finally adopt a common definition of energy poverty in the light of the energy poverty problem. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of the 'one country, two systems' principle to the energy sector. a common definition will therefore allow us to unify the meaning of this concept in the individual countries and thus set precise parameters by which the incidence of energy poverty can be measured. the energy union should therefore aim primarily at addressing this key pan-european phenomenon, while at the same time creating a secure and truly functional energy market. i am convinced that these matters will not remain on paper.
the report on poverty in terms of gender equality provides important data showing that even in european society more women remain at risk of poverty than men. the report cites labour market and pay discrimination as the main reasons. this is the sixth report in 2016 on a similar subject and unfortunately, in my view, it does not offer any new or better solutions. i believe that this is another form of discrimination. parents of children are discriminated against because they care for their children instead of saving and earning money and putting money into pension funds. i think mothers and fathers who care for children are discriminated against because society doesn't recognize this work as socially beneficial, and as long as this attitude persists, these women and parents will continue to be discriminated against.
in writing. the results of the statistics tell us a number of interesting things. historically, slightly more boys have been born, but the mortality rate for boys is higher than for girls, and so the numbers are matched at a relatively early age. women in societies that do not live in extreme poverty, virtually everywhere in the world, have significantly longer life expectancies. in developed societies, in the so-called rich countries, we find that women are more educated than men. yet inequality in family care and related inequality in employment advancement still exists. this phenomenon also results in a higher risk of poverty for women than for men, across all age groups. in recent years, a new phenomenon of working poverty has been observed in a number of countries. the fact that even in some eu countries the minimum wage is below the social emergency threshold is a clear indictment of the current economic system. capitalism, which calls for free competition, is not able to solve the problem of poverty. despite all the measures, whether it be investments in social areas or legislative action to bring equality between men and women to the labour market, the increased vulnerability of women remains a fact. the resolution seeks to make a positive correction to this malfunctioning system. although it does not address the substance of the problem, the gue supports the motion for a resolution.
i would like to focus on the competition aspect of the internal market, as my predecessor has mentioned. in my view, this is where we must firmly uphold our values, procedures and rules, which are the same as those in the eu. i am convinced that if we are to achieve general competitiveness, not just for large companies but also for small ones, we must insist on the values of competitive competition. i have to say that unfortunately i feel that even the european commission is slipping a little bit on this subject, because it was announced yesterday, for example, that the european commission had authorised the merger of two of the world's leading beer producers, the first and second, with a kind of demarcation of certain breweries that have to be pushed out of this joint venture. it means creating a 30% giant of world beer production. i do not know whether this is in line with economic policy and with the policy of the single market.
i confess that i came across the report because of a certain academic interest. i thank the rapporteur for presenting this report, and i must say that i appreciate that he mentions not only the negatives but also the positives. i can't spend my minute on the positives, so i'll just focus on the negatives. i think it's a little bit controversial whether we can allow into the financial system a certain element that can have the nature of a mine, that can actually explode because it has the various instruments of the financial system tied to it. as long as i mention two negatives. these virtual currencies can cover black market transactions and legalise the proceeds of crime. the high volatility of these virtual currencies and the potential for speculative bubbles are at stake. i mean, these are the risks that must call for predictable regulation, which is before, not after.
virtual currencies are certainly a very interesting innovation that allows citizens to be less dependent on banks and their often extortionate fees. however, we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that this opens up the space for black market transactions: the laundering of the proceeds of crime, the financing of terrorism, tax fraud and tax evasion and other criminal activities. i believe that we need to call for appropriate regulation at eu level, which will not stifle innovation or unnecessarily increase costs at this early stage, but will seriously address the regulatory challenges that could arise from the expansion of the use of virtual currencies. i hope that the commission will also realise that it is on very thin ice and will not use the situation to increase its surveillance of citizens who very often want to escape the oppressive grip of the greedy banks.
i will not talk about the problem of destroying the european union, but i will talk about the problem of controlling the european projects. i have often pointed out in the ep, as a member of the cont committee, that many european projects are not treated transparently and that there is corruption and fraud in connection with european projects in my own country. however, the other extreme that i see when i go around the czech republic is that for one project that is checked, there are three or four other checks that look for whether there was a mistake in that project. i personally consider this situation to be unprecedented and i call on the commission to really think about whether each project needs to be checked four or five times.
we often deal with critical situations in the area of democracy, security and human rights in the european parliament. we should also see positive changes. for example, in taiwan a new president and government were democratically elected by the democratic progressive party, which is now succeeding the ruling kuomintang party. i attended the inauguration with the ep delegation, where the new president, tsai jing-wen, called for the unity of the taiwanese people and for a joint work on reform. taiwan has such a great opportunity for further democratic and economic growth and is interested in working with the eu and individual member states, and we should take advantage of this offer. the second good news is that we've seen the release of nadia savchenko. the ep has repeatedly called for her release, and we are very happy to see her back in the ep. ukraine and europe need brave people.
i would like to ask the european union authorities to look at one problem which concerns the transport link, the danube-odra-labe waterway. in the czech republic, there is already a debate on this issue, this problem and this channel affect several countries, the czech republic, austria, poland, germany and slovakia. looking at the map, we all recognize that there should be a place for such a canal, because looking at the map of the european union, there is a certain white spot that perhaps calls for connection. i'm a cautious supporter of the canal. but i would like to ask the european union institutions to inform the czech republic and, of course, the other eu member states concerned whether they are also interested in such a project and interconnection, whether they see the usefulness of such a project. i think it would help the level of debate on this issue in the czech republic quite a lot.
in the strategy for the internal market in goods and services, the commission made an open commitment to combating discrimination against consumers in the internal market. it is not only consumer centres that often receive complaints from consumers about unjustified differences in treatment based on nationality or residence. any form of discrimination against consumers on the basis of their nationality or country of residence is absolutely unacceptable to me and contrary to the very idea of the internal market. i therefore welcome the resolution's strong rejection of the current form of discrimination, both in and out of the electronic environment. the increasing importance of the digital agenda cannot lead us to lose focus on compliance and effective enforcement in the offline world. nor, unlike the commission, does the resolution limit the forms of discrimination to differences in prices, sales conditions or delivery options. i therefore call on the commission, if it is really serious about its commitment to combating discrimination, to respect the demand of this house and to carry out a thorough investigation of possible differences in the quality of products of the same brand and the same packaging distributed within the single market, which is another concrete example of consumer discrimination.
i supported this report, however unlike several of my predecessors i want to warn against virtual currencies being fully allowed into the financial system without any initial regulation. i think that the regulation of every human activity is, of course, unacceptable to me. on the other hand, the stability of the financial system and the ability to react to the negative effects that virtual currencies bring to the system, is the responsibility of the legislator, that is, our responsibility. the negatives that are described by all of us in the same way about virtual currencies are actually the legalization of the proceeds of crime and the high volatility that is associated with these virtual currencies and the speculative bubbles that can result in the collapse of the financial system. i therefore call for regulation to be made in advance.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to support the report on virtual currencies and was particularly pleased that the approved version of the report calls for the creation of a task force within the commission to examine the effects of the proliferation of virtual currencies and the technology underpinning them, such as blockchain. as the report highlights, it is important that legislators do not rush to regulate this industry, as we must encourage innovation and the building of new technologies. blockchain in particular has huge potential beyond virtual currencies, such as helping to reduce fraud and being used as the basis for smart contracts. nevertheless, there are areas where we should pay close attention with regard to the use of virtual currencies. therefore i support the extension of the anti-money laundering directive to include virtual currencies, but as i emphasised in my amendments to the draft report, any such extension must be based on an impact assessment by the commission which clearly demonstrates the necessity of such measures. overall, this is a report which strongly supports innovation and i fully agree with it.
in writing. ‒ bitcoin brings a fairly large number of new approaches that raise discussions and questions about the future of the currency. i personally agree with the need to promote new and modern trends, which are inevitable in the development of society. but i also have a number of doubts about, for example, the use of currency for criminal activity. because of the difficulty of tracing and controlling currency, it is suitable for criminal activity, and because of the limited amount of money, i believe that there will be a permanent deflation. moreover, the value of the currency is only speculative, the currency itself is not backed by anything. another problem, in my view, is the need to generate addresses, for each payment to be identifiable it is necessary to create another address. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on virtual currencies because i see an opportunity in them in terms of lower transaction costs and ease of use. in this context, the high transaction costs of payments should be noted. the g8 data show that on average more than 7% of cross-border remittances involve transfer costs. the commission should therefore carry out a comprehensive analysis of the topic of virtual currencies and, on the basis of that assessment, consider the possible revision of the relevant eu legislation on payments, including the payment accounts directive, the payment services directive and the electronic money directive, taking into account the new possibilities that are opened up by new technologies, including virtual currencies. the objective should be to promote competition and reduce transaction costs.
in writing. ‒ digital cash has been part of the financial technologies we use today for a few years now, by significantly reducing the cost of transferring funds and increasing their availability. however, as this type of currency is still associated with considerable risks, i supported the report which deals specifically with the management of risks such as their high volatility, the formation of speculative bubbles or the absence of control structures. i believe that the technological documentation on the functioning of virtual currencies must become more transparent and that a proper legal framework should be developed, which is currently lacking. i therefore supported the recommendation that the european commission carry out a comprehensive analysis of digital cash and the new opportunities it offers in this context. at the same time, i would like to stress that consumer protection plays a very important role in this area. i therefore voted in favour of establishing cooperation between the commission, the member states and the representatives of this innovative financial sector, which must guarantee the provision of correct information. it is necessary to enable any consumer in the european internal market to make optimal decisions based on clear and unbiased information. i also supported the clause asking the european commission to amend the legislation to prevent these new technologies from being misused for money laundering or other black economy activities, including terrorist financing.
in writing. consumer confidence in a financial service provider, together with a high level of consumer protection in the event that that trust is not respected, are essential factors for a well-functioning and stable financial system. virtual currencies are a fast-developing technology that, like other novelties of the digital environment, is currently not subject to fixed and enforceable rules and is not subject to oversight. this, of course, entails a number of risks that need to be addressed appropriately. i therefore welcome the fact that this resolution not only highlights the potential benefits of virtual currencies, but in particular clearly identifies the areas that need to be addressed to ensure that virtual currencies are not used as a tool for fraud, theft, cybercrime or consumer deception. i am pleased that the resolution emphasises the importance of consumer awareness, transparency and trust in the use of virtual currencies and calls on the commission to develop concrete guidelines aimed at ensuring that users of virtual currencies are provided with correct, clear and complete information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on virtual currencies, as i believe that this is a much needed step to address the emergence and growth of virtual currencies (vc) and their underlying technologies. virtual currencies offer both great opportunities by contributing positively to citizens’ welfare and economic development, including in the financial sector, but can also entail non-negligible risks such as their use for criminal purposes. i believe that this report has managed to present a responsible and balanced way of addressing virtual currencies, by avoiding over-regulation, allowing this new and still developing technology to reach its full potential, while at the same time taking precautionary measures to be able to regulate when necessary and deal with potential risks before they become systemic.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides assistance to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade linked to globalisation. in this case, the funds were released to the french company moryglobal, which operates in the fields of courier services, freight transport and the delivery of goods. the appropriations made available should provide dismissed workers with career counselling, training seminars and other support leading to a better position on the labour market. since the french authorities have given the necessary assurances regarding the use of the funds, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, one of the instruments the eu has set up to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade or the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. france applied for assistance from this fund for the employees of moryglobal, which had to lay off over 2 500 workers as a result of globalisation, many of whom were already of retirement or pre-retirement age. i agree with the need for financial assistance, which is why i voted to release the corresponding funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the event of mass redundancies at moryglobal in france. as europe faces a decline in physical production, which is being shifted to other continents due to globalisation, the need for truck transport is logically decreasing. this is precisely what happened to more than two thousand workers who should rightly have been granted aid of eur 5 million. these, in combination with appropriate national measures, can then help them to reintegrate into the labour market. i have supported the provision of assistance to workers in the form of counselling in the search for a new job, in the setting up of new businesses or in the creation of new training courses. it is important to note that this mass redundancy case has affected workers in the problematic 55-64 age group to a large extent. it is therefore necessary to start individual assistance as soon as possible in order to prevent the social exclusion of these citizens. i am pleased that the european parliament was able to agree to grant aid in a relatively short time. in conclusion, i would like to add that i believe that support for mass redundancies should be available to all europeans, regardless of their member state, as the positive and negative effects of globalisation are felt throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers in france who lost their jobs at a company working in road haulage, moryglobal sas, due to the company’s bankruptcy. bankruptcies in the road haulage sector have increased by 35% annually when comparing 2013 with 2007, as a result of the global financial and economic crisis and the general decline of physical output in europe. the fund will thus provide these workers with additional assistance such as advice and guidance, training for new skills, and will facilitate meetings with possible new employers.
in writing. ‒ i voted to release funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers who lost their jobs in the supermarket shops of larissa in greece. these subsidies are intended to facilitate their integration into the labour market. the fund will provide workers with career guidance, training, retraining and vocational training as well as mobility allowances.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, one of the instruments the eu has set up to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade or the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. greece has applied for aid from this fund for the employees of larissa supermarket. the company was forced to lay off over 500 employees as a result of globalisation. i agree with the need for financial assistance, which is why i voted to release the corresponding funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the event of the mass redundancies of almost 600 workers from a cooperative of small greek food shops. the greek economy was deeply affected by the 2015 recession, which led to a decline in household consumption of up to 30% compared to the pre-crisis level. unfortunately, the company was not able to save the situation by internal austerity measures, which were not helped by the subsequent external pressure of austerity regulations by greek and european actors. i therefore voted in favour of providing more than eur 6 million to complement the greek government's participation in the resolution of this particular case. i supported the idea that not only the mentioned redundant employees but also the other 500 young unemployed people under 30 from the same region of thessaly should receive the support. i did so because of the lack of jobs in this area, where long-term unemployment is marked by a hard-to-believe three-quarters of jobseekers. i am therefore pleased that european funds will be used for activities that include the provision of vocational guidance, training, retraining and vocational training, support for start-up entrepreneurs or mobility grants. although the media world is not currently giving the first attention to the problems of european unemployment, this mobilisation of the globalisation fund is further evidence that europe's economic problems are far from being solved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers who lost their jobs at the supermarket larissa cooperative shops in greece to reintegrate the job market more easily. the supermarket’s bankruptcy followed the drop of the purchasing power of greek households and the drastic reduction of loans to companies and individuals. the fund will provide the workers with occupational guidance, training, retraining and vocational training, as well as participation, training and mobility allowances.
in writing. the draft decision concerned the waiver of the immunity of mep gianluca buonanno on the grounds that it would facilitate the investigation of telephone threats that buonanno himself had reported to the police in the past. the parliament's recommendation is based on a request from italian investigators, who are prohibited from examining the telephone records of an mep if he is protected by immunity. given the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs, which did not find that the request was intended to prevent the member from acting, i had no problem supporting the motion, despite the fact that it is a rather unusual situation where the immunity is waived by the alleged victim and not by the defendant.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of requesting a waiver of immunity for the member of parliament gianluca buonanno, to facilitate the inquiry in connection with criminal proceedings initiated before the ordinary court of vercelli on behalf of mr buonanno himself, in relation to telephone threats he claims to have received from an unknown caller on his mobile telephone number in april 2015. a waiver will thus grant the access by the investigating authority to the phone call records of the member’s mobile telephone number on the date on which he claims to have received threatening telephone calls.
in writing. in 2015, sweden had the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in the eu (11,503 applicants per million inhabitants), which led to a serious burden on the swedish asylum system. sweden has therefore requested a temporary suspension of its obligation under the council decision on the relocation of asylum seekers from greece and italy. in view of the change in the situation in recent months, the parliament's report recommended that the exception from reallocation should not be granted. on the one hand, it is true that the number of applications in sweden has decreased significantly and the exception may no longer be relevant. on the other hand, we should acknowledge that sweden has done more of the work than many other eu countries. unfortunately, we are now seeing that the relocation scheme in general is proving to be a very dysfunctional mechanism, which is why i abstained from voting on this matter.
in writing. - i voted yes. i am opposed from the outset to the perverse idea of redistributing people and i have in the past proposed an amendment on behalf of the efdd group to the effect that member states do not have to participate in this redistribution if they do not wish to do so. that is why i voted in favour of sweden not having to accept the quota allocation, at least temporarily. this proposal is not at the expense of the czech republic.
in writing. i supported the granting of a temporary exemption to sweden from participation in the emergency relocation mechanism due to the exceptionally high inflow of refugees in 2015 and in the first months of 2016, which made sweden the country with the highest number of applicants for international protection per inhabitant. i am therefore convinced that this relief to sweden is justified and in this respect i was somewhat surprised by the relatively close result of the vote in the responsible libe committee. sweden is making a huge effort in the refugee crisis and deserves to be supported in this way.
in writing. i supported the ep resolution approving sweden's request for a temporary one-year suspension of the relocation obligation. i would like to point out that this is only a suspension of the relocation decisions in favour of sweden, so the obligation to relocate does not cease for sweden, it is only suspended, in full compliance with the relocation decisions adopted. in 2015, sweden registered by far the highest number of applicants for international protection per inhabitant in the eu (11,503 per million inhabitants), while it is currently facing a significant increase in the number of unaccompanied minors. sweden has always been and continues to be a country that has approached asylum policy with great responsibility and with a huge degree of both human and financial solidarity. sweden has a long and significant history of contributing to european and global funds to help refugees. now sweden is in a state of emergency, facing a sudden influx of huge numbers of migrants on its territory. all these factors naturally place a considerable burden on the swedish asylum system. sweden wishes to continue to ensure that applicants for international protection are treated with dignity and receive the necessary assistance, and therefore asks its eu partners for the necessary solidarity and time to better manage the emergency situation they are facing.
in writing. in voting on the temporary international protection measures for sweden, i supported the intention to suspend sweden's participation in the relocation programme for 1 year, as it is not about removing sweden from the mechanism, but only about temporarily suspending its participation in order to give sweden, which has already taken in the largest number of migrants per capita, time and space to cope with the situation.
in writing. ‒ i abstain on the commission decision to suspend sweden from its obligation under the relocation scheme from italy or greece to sweden for one year. indeed, although i am not in favour of the scheme, i am against suspending obligations under it. in december 2015, sweden notified the commission of an emergency situation based on an influx of third country nationals and asked for a suspension of its obligations under the relocation decisions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it is, in my view, absolutely necessary to enhance safe data flows between the eu and the us. the mutual exchange is by far largest in the world and is essential for businesses, mainly for smes, with regards to their activities overseas. we have to keep our level of personal data protection while, at the same time, not blocking trade opportunities on both sides of the atlantic. it is legal certainty, clear and uniform rules we call for which should be key benefits of the proposed privacy shield.
‒ data sharing is undoubtedly important for the european economy, security and trade. however, the european union needs to ensure that the us side of such data sharing ensures the highest standards of personal data protection and that the rules of the game are clear and consistent. what is needed this time is an agreement that, unlike the previous safe harbour proposal, will stand up in the event of litigation. i therefore supported the joint resolution which, inter alia, calls on the commission to clarify the legal status of the so-called written guarantees by the us and to negotiate further improvements to the agreement.
in writing. - i got held up. i don't agree with the principle of passing data between the eu and the us government. this resolution is a silent but harmless call for greater protection of personal data as it is exchanged between governments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the transatlantic data flows, which supports the commission and the us government's efforts to substantially improve the privacy regime compared to the so-called safe harbour decision. in this context, i welcome the introduction of the individual redress mechanism, but the commission and the us government should work to make the process as simple and effective as possible. it is important that the transfer of personal data between the eu and the us is based on legal certainty, which is a necessary precondition for trust by both consumers and business partners. the commission should therefore continue its dialogue with the us government with a view to negotiating further improvements to the privacy shield arrangement.
in writing. i supported today's consent to the new eu-us agreement on the handling of eu citizens' personal data. the new privacy shield replaces the original safe harbour agreement, which was found by the eu court of justice to be insufficient in protecting the personal data of european citizens. i believe that the new agreement negotiated by the european commission meets the requirements of european legislation on the protection of personal data and that its early conclusion is in the interest not only of european citizens but also of european businesses, because in the digital economy the handling of personal data is an integral part of business relations. the negotiation of this agreement demonstrates that the union is very strong when it acts unitedly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu-us privacy shield. this is a framework of rules (administered by the us authorities) aiming to achieve a level of protection of personal data equivalent to the one in the eu. it is an arrangement for managing the transfer of data in the commercial sphere from the eu to the united states, replacing the safe harbour arrangement that was invalidated by the european court of justice. american companies can sign up to the privacy shield programme and, if they meet the requirements of this arrangement (which are more stringent than those normally prescribed by us law), are allowed to receive personal data from the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the report presented and also welcome the efforts of the commission and the us government to achieve better protection of personal data. however, i am aware that the privacy shield measures and the situation in the us do not provide sufficient improvements. personally, i believe that it is highly likely that the draft adequacy decision will be challenged again in court after its adoption, thus creating a situation of legal uncertainty for businesses and individuals. together with data protection experts and business associations, i recommend that companies use other means of transferring personal data to the us.
i am in favour of the energy union project and i support the creation of a single energy market, but in this area we must really weigh up the so-called pharmaceutical scales, which measures will be centralised or unified and which will remain entirely within the member states. this distinction is primarily a task for the european commission. as regards this particular report, i appreciate that it seeks to strengthen the competitiveness of european companies entering the energy market, it clearly strengthens the requirement for transparency and its aim is to create a well-functioning system for energy markets. it is important to me that the social right of individual consumers is also anchored here, which aims to tackle energy poverty. i think this is also essential for those of us who are voting for the centre and the right.
in writing. ‒ in this report, parliament calls for a new deal for eu energy consumers. it calls for better consumer choice, greater awareness, transparency and greater use of information and communication technologies to help reduce energy consumption and household electricity costs. i believe we need to implement liberalisation measures and ensure that european consumers have a truly transparent and competitive energy market. i was therefore happy to support the report, which seeks to empower consumers and help them to be active participants in the market.
in writing. under the heading of implementing a new policy for energy consumers, there is a rather extensive report which, in nine pages, brings some interesting ideas. it falsely claims that an ideal free market can exist without being affected by natural monopolies. the shameful statement of the need to eliminate energy poverty is sympathetic. translated, the author would like to propose a law on electricity supply. however, the directive does not address this right. the author has a clear desire to enable everyone to generate electricity. again, this is not a precise technical specification, but rather an appeal to national governments. similarly, the declaratory call for reasonable prices, including the recognition that one price should be at the top and another outside, remains in the background, the author also speaks of a price advantage for entities that have the ability to provide energy storage to the system. the benefits of low prices for consumers are mentioned, and the expansion of the number of municipalities with full self-consumption is considered positive. it is recommended to check the increase of fixed components in the invoices, a classic case of a jump in the fixed component of the energy price is the attempt of large suppliers to significantly increase the price for connection to the electricity grid, or to derive the price of connection from the size of the breaker. as the report, although non-binding, clearly calls for a number of positive changes, the gue/ngl group supports it.
in writing. i voted against this proposal because i do not agree that the european union should adopt more legislation and more regulation in the energy sector. i don't agree with the idea that there should be 'social tariffs' for electricity for the poor. on the contrary, i think it is eu policy that, in the form of 'renewable energy' surcharges, electricity and gas taxes and high vat, is making energy unaffordable, especially for the poor.
in writing. i welcomed the fact that today's report focuses exclusively on household energy consumers in the context of the energy transition, as i believe that industrial consumers should fall within a specific framework. in the report, we set ourselves ambitious targets such as eradicating energy poverty, better protecting consumers and guaranteeing their full right to information and free choice of energy supplier, as well as keeping retail prices affordable. i also agree that unfair trading practices must be combated and that the most vulnerable energy consumers must be protected in particular. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the implementation of the new energy policy for consumers and agree with its call for increasing the share of renewable energy sources, achieving energy savings and improving energy efficiency. i am of the opinion that member states should fully implement the provisions on switching suppliers set out in the third energy package and that national legislation must guarantee consumers the right to switch suppliers quickly, easily and free of charge, without the possibility of switching suppliers being hindered by termination fees or fines. last but not least, it is important to ensure that this right is enforced through market surveillance and effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties. with regard to the social dimension of energy consumption, the report rightly points out that in some member states there has been an increase in complaints concerning doorstep selling. this is a phenomenon that needs to be rigorously controlled.
in writing. ‒ on 15 july 2015, the european commission adopted a communication ‘delivering a new deal for energy consumers’ as part of the ‘summer energy package’. this communication places citizens in the centre of the energy union strategy and focuses on: helping consumers save money and energy through better information; giving consumers a wider choice of action when choosing their participation in energy markets; and maintaining the highest level of consumer protection. the itre committee own-initiative report welcomes the new deal and highlights the ongoing transition towards a more decentralised, energy-efficient and flexible energy system. the rapporteur, theresa griffin, aimed at number of actions with a view to empower citizens to produce their own renewable energy and become more energy-efficient. the report proposed number of interesting ideas, it however proposed to tackle an issue of energy poverty in very specific way. i voted in favour of the report, i however decided not to support rapporteur’s proposal to develop inclusive non-quantitative definition of energy poverty as a basic social right. i believe this is very sensitive social issue which should remain in competence of member states.
in writing. i supported the report as a whole because the final text was better balanced. in the roll-call vote, i rejected, for example, the problematic passage on the common definition of energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ i support this report and share the view of the parliament that the energy union should focus on the interests of eu citizens first and foremost. however, i am personally concerned that five years after the date of the introduction of the third energy package, its objective of ensuring a truly competitive and consumer-friendly retail market has still not been achieved. i believe that the key objective of the electricity market structure review should be to ensure sufficient investment in electricity markets and affordable prices and to provide consumers with greater choice. however, there should also be a strict control of energy suppliers operating on the european market.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses a highly important issue, but includes some provisions which i was not able to support such as the linking of eu austerity measures needed at a time of economic and financial crisis and the increasing rate of poverty in the eu, including among women. personally, i would have welcomed a more balanced approach and that is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ while i believe that poverty is an important issue in terms of gender equality and that discrimination in the labour market and in pay is a problem that should have been solved long ago in today's european society, i believe that the principle of subsidiarity must be kept in mind in this matter. i believe that this issue should remain the responsibility of the eu member states and therefore i could not vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. i voted against this proposal, which is a typical example of the social engineering of the european union. i do not agree with the eu creating a definition of equal value work (paragraph 20) or energy poverty (paragraph 53). i do not agree that the eu should set the parameters of maternity leave and thus interfere with the competences of the member states. i disagree with the ideas of a europe-wide minimum wage regulation and in particular with the denial of the foundations of the rule of law in paragraph 18 'transfer of the burden of proof in complaints of gender discrimination at the workplace'.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed a very important issue, poverty in terms of gender equality. the latest eurostat data show that the number of women living in poverty remains consistently higher than that of men approximately 64.6 million women versus 57.6 million men. this shows that poverty affects women and men differently, with women remaining the more vulnerable group. the report also highlights the impact of current austerity measures, which have hit women particularly hard, deepening inequalities and poverty among women and further excluding them from the labour market. at the same time, the report notes that there have been limitations to the public service networks and infrastructure for the provision of care for children, the elderly and the sick and the provision of these high-quality free public services. the report expresses our strong opposition to austerity policies and calls for greater equality between women and men. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ poverty and social exclusion affect more women than men, have a strong impact on their children and can persist for several generations. i therefore supported the report by ms arena, which stresses the need for tools to overcome the inequalities that women suffer. each member state and the european commission should strive to make full use of and apply them, whether in the form of introducing family-friendly working conditions or promoting social care facilities. the available financial instruments of the european union should also help states to invest in social infrastructure, and it is therefore important to optimise the european social fund and the european regional development fund in this context.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the final vote on the report on poverty in terms of gender equality. i could not support a report which, in its recommendations, does not respect the powers of the member states and proposes unrealistic solutions. it is true that in european society more women than men are at risk of poverty. in particular, income inequality persists, reflected in the large pension gap (39% eu average). the report mentions discrimination in the labour market and in pay. however, the report does not propose any new and better solutions to this situation and calls for steps that are clearly outside the union's competence, for example on the european child guarantee, i.e. guaranteed care and services for all children at eu level, or recognition of the rights of same-sex couples in relation to child rearing. this sensitive issue is to be dealt with at member state level and the european parliament should not interfere with their competence. on the other hand, the report does not address what i consider to be a very important issue, namely the discrimination against parents who raise children. caring families are at risk of poverty because they devote part of their professional careers to caring for children instead of earning and saving for retirement. unfortunately, the report doesn't mention that at all.
in writing. ‒ poverty is a reality in europe nowadays and the number of women in poverty remains permanently high. while this report proposes a number of good provisions to fight against poverty, i decided to abstain on the final vote because i believe that these elements should be decided at a national level in respect of different situations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the rapporteur has made clear what the eu and the single market is all about, which is removing barriers to trade and growth in europe. europe must not be about over—regulation, but instead removing the outdated protectionism measures of the past. goods and services must be free to move across europe without running into unjustified national regulations. a statement saying that ‘this is how it has always been done’ is not a valid justification. we are a single market and we must act like it.
‒ more than 20 years after the creation of the single market, unjustified non-tariff barriers (ntbs) still affect trade and the free movement of goods and services between member states. ntbs are often motivated by protectionism, are associated with a disproportionate administrative burden and are a hindrance to a competitive market economy. the report asks the commission to present in 2016 a comprehensive overview of ntbs in the single market and an analysis of how to address them. the removal of non-tariff barriers would allow the untapped potential of the single market to be exploited, benefiting consumers, producers and traders alike. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. i voted against the motion. i agree, for example, with the first point, which i voted for separately, that 'the free movement of goods and services continues to be restricted by non-tariff barriers such as unjustified national technical regulations and regulatory and non-regulatory requirements imposed on products, service providers and conditions of service provision or bureaucracy'. but i couldn't agree with the bill as a whole because of the proposals calling for further regulation of banking, the digital market, or the establishment of retail stores.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on non-tariff barriers to the single market. the report criticises the persistence of such obstacles in the single market, but it no longer addresses the other side of the coin, namely the fact that the single market does not only bring benefits but also imposes greater demands on smaller countries with weaker economies and has rather negative effects. in the report, the rapporteur also criticises the complexity of the current vat system. i am afraid that this will not lead to the unification of vat systems in the next stage. because i do not consider the report balanced, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. i supported the report on non-tariff barriers in the single market, which among other things points to the complexity of vat rules as one of the biggest non-tariff barriers. i believe that this obstacle could be removed by introducing a single vat office, which would also support smes in their cross-border activities. it should be stressed that many national administrative procedures also lead to unjustified non-tariff barriers. i see the solution in the wider use of e-governance and in the prioritisation of interoperability and digital signatures and in general in the provision of wider and more accessible digital services to citizens and businesses and in facilitating cross-border cooperation and interoperability of public administrations. at the same time, however, the use of e-government should not exclude alternative ways of accessing information or put at a disadvantage citizens who do not have access to digital services.
‒ the purpose of this resolution is to identify non-tariff barriers which prevent the full development of the internal market. in the context of the ongoing debate on so-called better regulation, however, i consider it very important to distinguish consistently between the attempt to eliminate unjustified or discriminatory regulatory measures for society and the attempt to dilute existing rules to reduce the level of consumer or employee rights. i therefore welcome the fact that, thanks to the contribution of the social democrats, the resolution does not in any way affect the right of the member states to regulate and pursue legitimate public policy objectives aimed specifically at protecting consumers, workers or the environment. i am also very pleased to have succeeded in getting the resolution to include the provision that although the widespread use of egovernment is seen as an important tool, especially for businesses, egovernment cannot exclude alternative ways of accessing information or put citizens who do not have access to digital services at a disadvantage.
in writing. ‒ more than 20 years after first launching the single market, trade and free movement of goods and services between states in europe, there are still numerous non-tariff barriers (ntbs) that hamper both consumers and business, particularly smes and start-ups. ntbs include heavy compliance costs between member states, unjustified national technical rules or unnecessary administrative requirements. i voted in favour of the resolution, which will look into ways to identify and remove the ntbs that are not justified, and make sure that, in cases where ntbs are justified, information on differing requirements is clear, accessible and user-friendly. i am confident that by ensuring a more uniform regulatory environment, making full use of digitisation, and guaranteeing mutual recognition where harmonisation is not possible, we can unleash the full potential of the single market and boost europe’s competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament's report because the creation of the single market is a major achievement, achieved only by working together to remove trade barriers across the european union. i believe that just as customs barriers have been removed, non-customs barriers should also be removed. the removal of non-tariff barriers will help businesses in the eu, but the main beneficiaries of the removal of these barriers will be consumers. i believe there are two main steps that need to be taken. better and more consistent enforcement of existing rules and a change in member states' mindsets that would lead to a shift away from increasingly used protectionist measures and towards a more full opening of domestic markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as whole because the single market is the heart of the european union. the commission’s strategy is another step towards its completion and should be welcomed. but during the voting, i voted against the references to the ‘made in’ article of the consumer products safety regulation. this important piece of legislation has been blocked for too long over this one point, especially when the inclusion of such a requirement would have no benefits for product safety. it is time we as a parliament accept that it needs to be removed, at least from this regulation, so that we can move forward and finally enter trilogues with the council.
in writing. in an own-initiative report, the european parliament presented a strategy to improve the single market. although the single market has seen positive developments in recent years, there is still room for improvement. for example, the eu should aim to reduce administrative burdens, get rid of unnecessary legislation, while ensuring a high level of standards for consumers, workers, health and the environment. the report also supported the commission's commitment to tackle the lack of tax coordination within the eu, in particular with regard to vat reform or cross-border crowdfunding. a functioning single market is, i believe, one of the eu's greatest assets, and i was happy to support the report calling for many improvements.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the establishment of the european innovation council, which i consider to be just another bureaucratic institution. i do not support either the commission's intention to use cosme funds to finance information campaigns targeting innovative young smes or to subsidize firms from other programmes. i am against the creation of a 'network of sme commissioners'. in short, i am for a free market, not a uniformly over-regulated and subsidized market.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on the single market strategy. the report considers the single market to be the eu's most important cornerstone and de facto speaks only of its benefits. but it is important to remember that the single market policy does not only bring benefits. this presents major challenges, especially for small countries with weaker economies, and the negative impacts on these economies are predominant. i would stress that the single market is characterised by long-term high unemployment rates. since the beginning of the financial crisis, the number of unemployed has increased by more than 6 million, which means that at the end of 2015 more than 22 million people in the union were out of work. i do not think that the creation of a single market is the only objective of the eu. we should focus more on social, environmental, health, employment, etc. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. i supported the single market strategy report, which sets out new directions for the development of the internal market in the light of the identified gaps and shortcomings in its functioning. for example, the possibility of introducing a simplified vat approach for the same category of goods in the area of e-commerce should be considered. in practice, this would be new rules on the place of supply as regards vat on digital services. i support the commission's intention to use cosme funds to finance information campaigns targeting young innovative smes. smes in particular would also certainly welcome the commission's initiative to harmonise insolvency proceedings across the eu, from which they could expect to benefit from shorter proceedings and lower costs.
in writing. i supported today's european parliament resolution on the single market strategy. this document responds to the european commission's plan for the single market and gives the european parliament the opportunity to highlight some specific issues that it considers important. i believe that such a theme is above all one of support for smes, whose specificities must be taken into account in the individual future steps, starting with not burdening them with unnecessary administrative work and ending with actively supporting them through tailor-made provisions in the individual areas of the single market. however, i consider it equally important to reflect in further considerations the position of consumers, who should only be prevented from using services in the single market by genuinely well-founded obstacles based on the principle of the public interest. with the increased mobility of european citizens, there is also a growing legitimate demand for the possibility of using services across borders or of benefiting from uniform consumer protection rules.
in writing. ‒ despite positive developments, the single market is still underperforming in most areas, and europe’s competitiveness is suffering from it. this resolution proposes a new strategic approach to achieve a better integration of the single market, which is why i voted in favour of it. europe should exploit the full potential of digitalisation and innovation, create a more start-up and risk friendly environment, but also ensure that legislation, namely in the area of taxation, is harmonised across member states. lowering administrative burdens and compliance costs on businesses, especially smes, and repealing unnecessary legislation, while continuing to ensure high standards of consumer, employee, health and environmental protection, is key to delivering the objectives of the strategy.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support the report presented because the completion of the single market has always been a key political priority in the european integration process. i appreciate that in recent years, during the barroso commission, very important steps have been taken in various areas. on the other hand, the present situation requires us to take an even more pragmatic and decisive stance. i am convinced that the european parliament can make a significant contribution to making the single market strategy more ambitious, through proposals in the individual areas. parliament should also focus its efforts on creating a more modern and innovative, stronger and fairer market. personally, i believe that the policy priorities should be to strengthen the competitiveness of enterprises (and consequently to increase employment) as well as to improve enforcement, improve the law and promote consumer protection.
mr president, i would also like to begin my speech, of course, with the word prevention. prevention is prevention. however, i think the commissioner's statement is worth appreciating. i would like to acknowledge the role of the european union in this field, because, as the commissioner has pointed out, half of the contributions allocated to the fund specifically to combat not only hiv/aids but also other major diseases, tuberculosis and others, are contributions from the eu member states. that's, i think, really commendable, and i think it's important to highlight that here. in my opinion, this disease is a great example of the tremendous progress that medicine has made. in the 1980s and 1990s, hiv/aids was an incurable, fatal disease. it's now curable to some extent, but i think it's a disease that any of us would be afraid to get. and i think it's important to say in this field that people in eastern europe have stopped being afraid. 120,000 new infections in one year, i think that's a lot, and the goal that was set to eradicate this disease by 2030 is very ambitious, but with this approach, it's clear that it's not going to be achieved. i think more should be invested in research. and of course, prevention, which many of my colleagues here have talked about. and unfortunately, my country, the czech republic, is failing a lot in this regard. we've been pushing back on prevention programs, and now it's back to the top of the list, the highest number of cases since we started tracking cases in this area. and so it's important to talk about the fact that the european union should not only invest money in fighting this disease, but also in research and supporting those countries that are on the other side of poverty, that is, those that really cannot afford their infected medicines.
mr president, i too would like to call for a new deal, a new deal, because i believe we are at the threshold of a time when the wealth of the world should be directed towards the poorest countries today. you have to face the so-called truth, and i really appreciate this report, because it describes all the crisis areas, whether it's migration, whether it's trade and finance, whether it's food security or health, whether it's climate change or security, all of these are described in a very truthful way, in my opinion. in my view, it is important that policy coherence should also be linked to the member states of the european union, i.e. that national parliaments and member states and their citizens in general should not be excluded. it is important to include not only the efficiency aspect but also the communication with the member states, which has already been discussed here. i should like to point out that the author, mr preda, also mentions in the report the impact of the european union's policies, which we should examine in the areas of agriculture, trade and energy. and it specifically raises the issue of biofuels. i have to blame the czech government here to some extent, because it is precisely the aspect of how biofuels are taken into account and what is the experience with them not only in agriculture but also in other sectors, so in this case the czech government is clearly failing, it has chosen the least demanding way to meet the criteria set by the european union. and there are a number of other areas in the report, so i am convinced that the report is of high quality and i will be very happy to support it in the next vote.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, i am pleased to be able to address such an important subject as the safety of nuclear power plants, not only in connection with the construction of a new nuclear power plant on the belarus-lithuania border. according to the world nuclear association, as of may 1, 2016, 440 nuclear reactors were in operation in 30 countries around the world, and another 173 reactors are planned, including in the eu. we recently commemorated the sad anniversary of the tragic accident at chernobyl. on this occasion, i organized a round table with belarusian experts, as well as representatives of civil society, who shared their experiences of the disaster with us. they are assured that the construction of the new power plant is being carried out in accordance with all the latest standards and under the supervision of non-governmental organisations. however, nuclear installations located in the territory of 'old' eu member states, such as belgium, also raise safety concerns. and i can't help but mention ukraine, where nuclear facilities are located on the border of the battle lines. we certainly have different views on many things, but we must have a debate on how to eliminate as much as possible the risks of accidents and ensure energy and civil safety.
madam president, many actors in the food supply chain have been faced with late payment, unilateral changes in contractual terms or cost transfers by a trading partner. voluntary initiatives at national and european level, whereby some market players have committed themselves to fair dealing, have been shown to suffer from a number of shortcomings. they cannot therefore be considered as a tool against the abuse of inequality. given the increasing fragmentation of rules in the internal market, we need a single european framework to define common principles to combat unfair trading practices. the report calls for a level playing field across the member states to allow markets to function as they should. it requires fair and transparent relationships between manufacturers, suppliers and distributors. it also calls for improvements to the limited cooperation between national supervisory authorities to improve the fight against cross-border cases. balancing the bargaining power along the chain will enhance competitiveness, contribute to sustainable development and a diverse choice of quality and affordable food for the final consumer.
in writing. the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu could be supported provided that it takes into account the independence and diversity of eu farmers, the health and environmental impacts, the reality of climate change and eu food safety law. new technologies and innovation are clearly what eu farmers need to adapt to new and ever-changing conditions and as such deserve support. however, i do not like it when points are included in the own-initiative report which do not respect any of the above, do not take account of the precautionary principle and then everything is interpreted as a uniform position of parliament. the report is not acceptable in its current form, inter alia, because it says a but no longer completes b. the report mentions malnutrition, but it does not mention that obesity is now a bigger problem. it talks about food shortages, but it doesn't mention that food waste is a fundamental problem. the report by mrs mcintyre also argues that the eu should feed the rest of the world, even though it is clear that local and regional production will be much more important for developing countries. the rapporteur is clearly unaware of the enormous problem of the current agricultural system. it produces food at the cost of enormous burdens on the planet and as such cannot be applied in the future.
madam president, i would like to talk about how our internal market in copyright works works and how it does not work. europe has a collective management system for copyright to ensure that intellectual property rights are respected, and thus to provide rightholders with a certain level of comfort in granting those authorisations to use their works, which are then granted by those collective managers. the public should be given access to these works. however, the problem is that each collective management organisation only represents rightholders in a certain territory of a member state. and today it is virtually impossible to get approvals for the exclusion of musical works throughout the european union. i think it would be appropriate for the european union to think about this problem, so that a user can obtain the consent of a specific creator from a specific collective manager, who can then also give consent for the entire eu territory.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first of all this is the second step in the european effort to fight tax evasion and tax avoidance and let me appreciate the quality and speed of the commission proposal. at the same time, let me say that i fully understand the difficulties in the council in finding agreement on the directive. nevertheless i would very much appreciate it if the council pays a little bit more attention to parliament’s position as i believe it can significantly improve the quality. let me therefore send this message to council members regardless of their not very strong presence. let me first give some overall remarks. this is an anti-beps directive that is focused on tax evasion and tax avoidance. we must be aware of the risk that efforts to make it stronger at any cost can change it from an anti-beps directive to an anti-business directive. so we must be sensitive to the fact that most firms do pay taxes fairly, and by economic activity, by employment, they are contributing to the prosperity of our society. we should also bear in mind that the administrative burden for smes is quite serious so we must always consider the pros and cons of tightening the directive. second, let me say that we should not forget that this is just the beginning. there are more proposals that should come, and ccctb especially is the key. on a substantive issue, one of the proposals focuses on making a distinction between genuine economic activity and activities used for tax avoidance, things like income from active business, tangible assets and so on should, in my opinion, be incorporated. also some rules should be extended. hybrid mismatches should be applicable not only within the union, but also outside the union, and i also believe that a nominal limit in the interest limitation rule can be increased without harming the fight against tax evasion. let me conclude by saying that i believe we will approve it very soon and it will significantly contribute to improvement in this area and the opinion of parliament will be taken into account.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the conclusions of the protocol aiming at elimination of illicit trade and smuggling of tobacco products. smuggling of cigarettes and other tobacco products into the union and within its borders is a serious criminal activity having terrible consequences on public health. not only that, it is one of main important sources of finances supporting organised crime and one of the key losses in revenue for the eu and its member states which we cannot and should not afford. we need to address this problem seriously, as a lot is at stake, therefore i would be happy to support swift implementation of the protocol. that is why i voted in favour.
‒ illicit trade in tobacco products, and in particular cigarette smuggling, poses a serious threat to public health by undermining tobacco control policies and standards and increasing access to often the cheapest tobacco products. in addition, it naturally causes a great economic loss to the eu, with member states losing out on the profits from unpaid taxes and duties. i believe that ratification of this protocol will benefit the health of european citizens and help in the international fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, tax evasion and organised crime. that is why i voted in favour of accession to the protocol to the who framework convention.
in writing. i abstained from the vote to give the european parliament its consent to the conclusion of an international protocol to combat cigarette smuggling. i am of the opinion that member states should have the right to accede to the protocol without the consent of the european parliament. i consider that protocol harmless, which is why i chose to abstain. however, i believe that the main incentive for smuggling cigarettes is their uniform price and high taxation across the european union, which is a big incentive for smuggling, especially in the poorer countries in the east of the eu, and that a protocol that encourages increased state control over the sale of cigarettes will not improve the problem of smuggling.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on the world health organisation (who) protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products, in which parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of this protocol. the who protocol aims to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. illicit trade is defined as any practice or conduct prohibited by law relating to the manufacture, distribution, purchase or sale of tobacco products. the protocol should also apply to supply chains. it focuses on combating counterfeit tobacco products or money laundering derived from the illicit trade in those products. i voted yes.
in writing. i supported the council's decision to conclude this protocol. the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products was signed in december 2013 as part of the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control. the protocol aims to eliminate all forms of illicit trade, specifically targeting supply chains through a series of measures at governmental levels. it establishes a global regime for monitoring the movement of tobacco supplies and a central hub for sharing this information, which should prevent the smuggling of goods. the protocol contains a series of specific measures (definition of offences, liability, payments, treatment of confiscated goods, etc.). the protocol also emphasises the incompatibility of the interests of the tobacco industry with public health interests.
in writing. ‒ illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling is a criminal activity seriously threatening public health and causing huge losses of revenue to the eu in terms of unpaid taxes and customs duties. estimates indicate more than eur 10 billion losses of revenue annually to the eu and member states, in other words this means that roughly one cigarette out of 10 is sold illegally. i voted in favour of ratifying the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products (fctc protocol) of the who framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) as it is both a necessary step to improve public health, as well as to help fight illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime. the protocol’s main suggestion is to make the supply chain of tobacco, tobacco products and manufacturing equipment secure by establishing a global tracking and tracing system, and increasing international cooperation in customs matters.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, it is a sensible proposal. illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling, is a criminal activity and, moreover, a serious threat to public health.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a draft recommendation on uniform technical rules for wheeled vehicles in the un economic commission for europe. the automotive industry is a key sector for europe, employing over 12 million people and accounting for 4% of eu gdp. and that's not to mention the downstream industries, it plays a significant role for the steel industry, the chemical industry, etc. it should also be recalled that the eu is one of the world's largest producers of motor vehicles and the sector is the largest private investor in r&d. i supported the proposal for global technical harmonisation because i believe that the eu needs to increase its competitiveness while avoiding duplication of administrative procedures.
in writing. ‒ as the czech republic's representative in the european parliament, i follow legislation concerning the automotive industry very closely, as it provides very high added value and plays an important role in the trade balance of both the czech republic and the euro area as a whole. to maintain this key position of the automotive industry, the eu must strengthen the competitiveness of the sector and maintain its global technological leadership. international regulatory cooperation is therefore very important, as it promotes transparency and competitiveness while at the same time being able to ensure the highest level of health and safety protection. an example is global regulatory cooperation within the unece, which needs to be taken into account and strengthened. this will help us achieve common technical requirements that will help reduce development, production and certification costs and avoid duplication of administrative procedures.
in writing. i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the completion of the revision of unece agreement no 3 concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions. this revision is intended to provide the basis for an international whole vehicle approval system, which is not yet recognised by the unece, to facilitate the introduction of new technologies of interest to industry (autonomous vehicles) and to allow access to new markets. common technical requirements help to reduce the costs of development, production and certification and avoid duplication of administrative procedures.
in writing. ‒ given the growing interconnectedness of global markets, and the increasing globalisation of our production processes, i believe it is key to remove any unnecessary regulatory barriers to trade and cooperation, to maintain and strengthen a competitive and diversified industrial base in europe. the automotive industry in particular, which provides jobs for 12 million people and accounts for 4% of the eu’s gdp, is a core economic sector for the eu and represents the largest private investor in research and development. this is why i voted in favour of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, as i hope that this will strengthen the competitiveness of the eu automotive industry and preserve its global technological leadership. i believe that other industries should see this an example to follow. increasing technological harmonisation and international regulatory cooperation can promote a transparent, effective, pro-competitive economic environment while developing and securing the highest levels of protection of health and safety.
in writing. ‒ the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural products and industrial products as well as services. it contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. the vote concerned the accession of croatia to this trade agreement and is only a natural consequence of croatia's accession to the eu. i therefore voted in favour of the additional protocol.
in writing. - i voted yes. the agreement confirms croatia's participation as a new eu country in the trade agreement with peru and colombia. the agreement liberalises trade between the eu and these south american countries to a certain extent. i agree to the accession of croatia to this agreement.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the proposal to approve croatia's accession to the trade agreement between the eu, colombia and peru. of course, i am not against croatia's participation in this agreement as the newest member of the eu. however, we are dealing with a trade agreement with these countries, the content of which is the liberalization of trade in agricultural, industrial and other goods. the agreement also focuses on competition and technical barriers to trade. it completely ignores social and other important areas, which is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - i supported the report. it was only a technical draft of an already existing trade cooperation agreement linked to croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. this protocol of accession to the trade agreement with peru and colombia constitutes an international treaty adapting the trade agreement with peru and colombia to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu. the idea is that croatia can also benefit from duty-free and quota-free access to the markets of the countries concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-colombia and peru trade agreement to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu. this agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products as well as in services and contains provisions on other issues such origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. this is a necessary step on the way to full integration of croatia into the eu.
in writing. - i got held up. i have no objection to certain states establishing enhanced cooperation between themselves, i.e. adopting common rules on the recognition of judicial decisions, in particular on the division of property in mixed marriages. the czech republic and 16 other countries are also interested in participating in enhanced cooperation.
in writing. ‒ 17 member states decided to introduce a system of so-called enhanced cooperation (including the czech republic) with the aim of bringing clear rules to govern the property relations of international married couples and registered partnerships. the aim is to provide such couples, whose number is constantly increasing, with greater legal certainty. it is clear that in the event of divorce or death of a partner, a person living in an international union, of which there are some 16 million in the eu, may find himself in a difficult situation, faced with an uncertain legal situation. the purpose of the motions is, for example, to clarify the jurisdiction of the national court, the applicable law, to facilitate the enforcement and recognition of judgments, etc. i believe this will make life easier for couples and save additional costs of up to eur 400 million per year. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's recommendation to approve enhanced cooperation between member states on the property rights of international couples. i am also pleased that the czech republic has acted actively when it applied to the commission to participate in this enhanced cooperation. the increase in the number of marriages and registered partnerships with an international element is an undeniable reality of the union today, to which the increasing mobility of students and workers across the union contributes. in 2007 alone, there were 300 000 international marriages in the eu and some 41 000 registered partnerships had an international element in terms of assets. although the settlement of assets presents daily practical challenges, there are no union rules in this area yet. for example, international couples cannot determine with certainty which court has jurisdiction to settle their property or which law will govern a particular property situation. the enhanced cooperation is intended to create a clear legal framework for almost 16 million international couples in the participating member states. the property relations of international couples will be dealt with in a comprehensive manner, under one applicable law and by one authority. this avoids parallel proceedings, conflicting court decisions or high costs of proceedings. at the same time, enhanced cooperation does not restrict the sovereignty of the state to establish or not to establish the institution of registered partnership. he only counts on it where it already exists.
in writing. i have supported today the european parliament's endorsement of enhanced cooperation on the property rights of international couples, since this is an endorsement of enhanced cooperation between member states which have concluded such cooperation on the council's territory, and such enhanced cooperation does not in any way bind non-participating states to the procedure to be followed by member states participating in such enhanced cooperation.
in writing. ‒ in times of intense cooperation and exchange between all member states of the eu, it seems only natural to adjust the legal rights on property regimes for international couples. since it was impossible to reach an agreement between all member states within a reasonable period, an agreement was now reached between 18 member states of the union wishing to establish enhanced cooperation: belgium, bulgaria, the czech republic, germany, greece, spain, france, croatia, italy, cyprus, luxembourg, malta, the netherlands, austria, portugal, slovenia, finland and sweden. this agreement will authorise enhanced cooperation between these member states in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property regimes of international couples, covering both matters of matrimonial property regimes and the property consequences of registered partnerships.
in writing. ‒ as the majority of illicit tobacco products comes from outside of the eu area, strengthened international cooperation focused on clear legislative procedures and better law enforcement is much needed to face this issue. i believe that the main tool to fight illicit trade activities, counterfeiting of tobacco products and tax evasion should be enhanced multilateral regulatory instrument such as the who’s framework convention on tobacco control. i am glad that we have agreed on the use of such a tool and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the world health organisation's protocol to combat illicit trade in tobacco products also calls on states to cooperate within the judicial system to effectively combat owners, distributors, dealers and other actors involved in the illicit sale of tobacco products. i believe that the promotion of international cooperation, adequate exchange of information, law enforcement cooperation and mutual legal and administrative assistance is necessary to combat these illegal practices effectively. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the motion calling for the speedy ratification of the protocol, but also for the introduction of a tracking system for tobacco sales and for other improvements.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the conclusion of the protocol on the fight against cigarette smuggling, which concerns judicial and criminal matters. the protocol requires the establishment of an international monitoring regime, requires strict licensing of cigarette trade and defines crimes in a uniform manner, thus interfering with the criminal law of individual countries. i am also against the czech republic joining the protocol.
in writing. ‒ illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling is a criminal activity seriously threatening public health and causing huge losses of revenue to the eu in terms of unpaid taxes and customs duties. estimates indicate more than eur 10 billion in lost revenue annually to the eu and member states. this is why i voted in favour of the provisions on obligations related to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of criminal offences of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation’s framework convention on tobacco control. through this provision, special efforts will be made to encourage and enhance international cooperation, valid information sharing, technical and law enforcement cooperation, mutual legal and administrative assistance. it will establish offences, address liability and seizure payments as well and the disposal of confiscated products.
mr president, i want to emphasize that i voted for both reports on financial instruments in the trading market. it is essential to me that the european union continues to move towards an effective internal market, that the internal market functions regardless of whether member states put additional obstacles in its way. i firmly believe that the european union will push for a review of financial instruments in the trading market.
in writing. - i voted yes. this amendment to the directive postpones the effective date of financial market regulation to 3 january 2018. the commission is asking for time to be able to prepare the infrastructure to process all the data it wants from financial institutions. i am generally against the new regulations that the financial markets directive 2014/65 introduces. i see the deferral as a chance to reject the directive altogether.
in writing. i supported the extension of the applicability of the entire mifid ii rulebook until 3 january 2018, which should be sufficient time for esma, ncas and operators to put in place the infrastructure for data collection, reporting and calculation of transparency thresholds. i am convinced that this will avoid the risk of confusion and unnecessary costs for the parties concerned due to the phased implementation. building different infrastructures simultaneously rather than in stages makes the whole process cost-effective. this will, for example, avoid situations where investment firms executing orders would have to introduce organisational requirements or rules governing the conduct of business in stages, which would be complicated, costly and expensive.
in writing. ‒ in april 2014, in the wake of the financial crisis, we believed to have adopted a cornerstone of european financial market regulation to better shield the union from another crisis. mifid and mifir, collectively referred to as mifid, were supposed to increase the transparency of markets and improve their oversight for businesses and consumers. while i find it regrettable that, two years later, we need to delay the implementation date of this important package after an already unusually long period of work by one year, i am aware of the complexities and technical challenges this package represents, which is why i voted in favour of the delay. it is more important to lay out good, workable rules than to rush things too quickly and to disturb the good functioning of the market.
mr president, that also applies to mr ferber's report. i supported it, the same as i said to the previous point.
in writing. - i voted yes. this amendment to the directive postpones the effective date of financial market regulation to 3 january 2018. the commission is asking for time to be able to prepare the infrastructure to process all the data it wants from financial institutions. i am generally against the new regulations that the financial markets directive 2014/65 introduces. i see the deferral as a chance to reject the directive altogether.
in writing. ‒ package transactions enable investment firms and their clients to better manage their risks, with the price of each component of the package transaction reflecting the overall risk profile of the package rather than the prevailing market price of each component. i voted in favour of deferring the implementation of the specific circumstances in which pre-trade transparency should not apply to package transactions, nor to any individual component of such transactions. while i am fully supportive of transparency measures in the financial sector, package transactions can take various forms, and it is important to consider those specificities when applying the transparency regime.
in writing. ‒ having verified the credibility and suitability of rimantas šadžius by the committee on budgets and having recommended him to the members as a credible candidate in view of the requirements laid down in the tfeu, i voted in favour of his membership of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors operates as a college of 28 members, with one nominee for each eu member state. initial nominations are followed by a hearing in the european parliament (in the committee on budgetary control, of which i am a member). i have unambiguously supported the candidacy of mr shadijus, both on the basis of the hearing and on the basis of the written replies to the supplementary questions of the members of the committee on budgetary control. i am convinced that he is an excellent expert and i am pleased to be able to work more closely with him as a member of the committee on budgetary control in the coming term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of nominating of rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors as suggested by the committee on budgetary control. i trust that mr šadžius’s professional experience as a minister of finance in lithuania from 2007 to 2008, and his second term as minister of finance in the cabinet of algirdas butkevičius since 2012 will qualify him to deliver on the requirements of this position.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from a vote on this report as it included some of provision not directly linked, in my view, to development policy itself and its coherence with other union’s policies. it mainly called for greater harmonisation of migration and asylum policies with international partners and single common asylum and immigration policies within the eu. also, i could not agree with the statement that trade liberalisation is not positive for a poverty eradication and has negative effects on sustainable development. i believe exactly the opposite, and although i am convinced that there is a constant need for policy coherence in development area, i could not support this report.
in writing. i was very pleased to support the european parliament resolution on the eu report on policy coherence for development for 2015. i'm glad we're focusing on sustainable development these days. it tells me that maybe we'll finally be able to solve the problems that we're all facing in a holistic way, without the rose-colored glasses. for example, the final text includes a point stating that: 'trade liberalisation is not in itself positive in terms of reducing poverty and inequality, as it could have negative consequences for sustainable development'. translated into colloquial english, this means that if developing countries open their markets to multinational corporations, they run a significant risk of being robbed, and poverty and inequality in society will increase as slums are built away from luxury housing. i also appreciated the fact that the resolution calls on the eu and its member states to continue to actively engage with the un human rights council to hold transnational corporations accountable for human rights violations. but we have a lot of work to do to rectify the fact that 1.5 billion people still live in poverty, without proper health care, education and living standards. this is a step in the right direction.
in writing. the report criticises developing countries for using tax incentives and tax breaks to attract or retain investors, leading to harmful tax competition and a race to the bottom, while celebrating subsidies and cohesion policies. i think we need to give developing countries the freedom to cut taxes and attract investors instead of teaching them to draw on subsidies. on the other hand, i consider tax competition to be healthy. the report also calls for new taxes: 'it is necessary to consider innovative and diversified sources of funding such as a financial transaction tax, a carbon tax, a surcharge on air tickets, rents from natural resources'. i'm against the introduction of these new taxes.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the report on policy coherence for development for 2015. the report makes a number of key points with which i fully agree, such as the fact that impact assessments are an important tool for achieving policy coherence for development, but that there are not too many development and developing country impact assessments. with reference to the 2030 agenda, the ambitious goals set out are recalled, such as food security for the whole world, the total eradication of hunger and the elimination of all forms of malnutrition. the impact of eu policies on developing countries, for example in agriculture, trade or energy, also needs to be considered. i also welcome the commitment to promote sustainable and agroecological practices. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported a report which takes a comprehensive approach to development policy issues. developing countries should be assisted in strengthening their capacity in tax and financial administration and public financial management and in combating illicit financial flows. we should ensure that multinational companies pay taxes in the countries where value is obtained or created. in this regard, the establishment of a new intergovernmental body under the auspices of the un to deal with international tax cooperation could be useful. it is the eu's task and responsibility to seek to deepen international cooperation in tax matters.
in writing. ‒ the scale of the current migration crisis has shown us just how far a situation can go, which is primarily caused by the lack of development in the surrounding world and its ignorance by developed countries. i therefore voted in favour of the 2015 report on policy coherence for development. it is necessary that the european union pursue its policies in a manner consistent with its commitments in the past with regard to development aid and assistance. it is now clear that the commitments made so far have not been sufficient and that it would be appropriate to develop new development concepts and objectives that do not exclusively follow the original paradigm of cooperation. it is necessary to involve local and regional authorities, expert groups and civil society organisations even more in the process of providing assistance. furthermore, to ensure deeper coordination between the european union institutions and the member states. it is crucial that european countries remember their commitment to provide 0.7% of their gnp in official development assistance and ensure the exchange of good cooperation practices. i also supported the systematic assessment of the impact of other european union policies on the food and other security of developing countries. it is not possible, for example, that poorly designed biofuel policies in modern countries endanger the livelihoods of the poorest on other continents, who are also more vulnerable to global climate change.
in writing. as a social democrat, i decided to support the european commission's fifth biennial report on policy cohesion for development (pcd), which was published in august 2015. it is a very important instrument that ensures a harmonious development in all parts of the european union at a similar level. it is a very important concept that takes advantage of the solidarity between the rich eu countries and the poorer eu countries so that there are no big differences in economic development. the ep resolution on the 2016 mff analyses and formulates concrete recommendations on five priority areas (trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security). the rapporteur nevertheless suggests that attention should be paid to the eu's external policy, which i agree with in principle, but any new policy orientation for the coming period should be seen in a comprehensive way so that solving a problem in one area does not create a problem in another. all eu policies depend on the budget the eu has at its disposal. i am convinced that in the current circumstances and with the growing demands for european solutions to a number of parallel crises, it will be necessary to proceed with an overall increase in the eu budget.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's report on the eu's 2015 report on policy coherence for development, as it addresses the important topic of policy coherence in general to promote sustainable development, and also because it mentions the importance of development aid in the context of the current migration crisis. development assistance is now a tool to tackle the migration crisis in the long term, as it is clear that only the comprehensive development of the countries that are now the source countries of migration will ensure that the numbers of migrants gradually decrease and that these people find a safe and meaningful life in their own countries. achieving this objective requires, in particular, that development aid is not only humanitarian aid but also, and increasingly, investment that leads to further development in the countries receiving development aid.
in writing. ‒ the 2030 sustainable development agenda represents a unique opportunity to review the coherence of our development strategies to ensure that they actually improve people’s lives. while i appreciate and agree with many of the proposals made in this report, i however decided to abstain because there are some elements that i cannot compromise on. while it is crucial that we agree on a holistic and efficient migration and asylum system, i do not believe that developing a single common system is at the moment feasible. furthermore, i don’t believe in using instruments such as a financial transaction tax, a carbon tax, an air ticket levy, rents from natural resources as sustainable sources of financing. finally, if the market rules are fully respected, i do believe that trade liberalisation is a very efficient tool to combat poverty and encourage development, unlike what the report states.
in writing. i abstained because i have a number of important points to make about the report. the proposal concerns, for example, the harmonisation of migration policy, the gender dimension, the financial transaction tax or the involvement of the un in tax controls - all of which are to be addressed primarily in the individual member states concerned.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the report presented because i believe that trade and direct finance are one of the main priorities for policy coherence and a pathway to sustainable development. however, it must be stressed that trade liberalisation is not in itself positive in terms of reducing poverty and inequality. i am of the opinion that private funding for individual climate action cannot replace public funding.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition aims to improve food security and nutrition by helping 50 million people in sub-saharan africa to lift themselves out of poverty by 2020, and that is why i voted in favour of it. this is of course also important for the future of europe in many ways. africa should be as self-sufficient as possible. the situation is complicated, however, by the prospect of further waves of migration in the future, due to global warming. africa is becoming increasingly dry, limiting the ability to survive in certain areas. in addition, the continent, like the world, should meet the un sustainable development goals by 2030, in particular the goals related to the elimination of hunger and poverty. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i appreciate that the report 'urgently calls on g8 member states not to promote genetically modified crops in africa'. i wonder how some g8 countries, especially the us, are going to handle this, when the eu is trying to impose gmos at all costs, and fortunately, the eu has the power to oppose. but what chance do states facing economic instability and significant social problems have against such a powerful lobby?
in writing. on the one hand, the report calls for the eu to remove tariffs on african products, which i agree with. on the other hand, the report criticizes the tax incentives that african countries provide. i think we should leave it to the african countries to decide what taxes they're going to have. the report also calls on member states to ensure that eu-based companies doing business in africa apply a 'social responsibility policy' in africa, and ensure that 'environmental, social, land, labour and human rights and the highest standards of transparency' are respected, and that 'local african businesses' are supported. this is something that our government cannot provide, and the enforcement of african law must be provided by african governments. for these very serious reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on the objectives of the new alliance for food and nutrition security. the question of nutrition is and will be of the utmost importance. it is estimated that by 2050, 70% of the world's population will live in cities and that the issue of nutrition will still require a response at both global and regional levels. the new alliance aims to improve this by helping 50 million people in sub-saharan africa to lift themselves out of poverty by 2020. investment in smallholder farming has been severely neglected in africa in recent years and this needs to be corrected. i also agree that food security in developing countries depends to a large extent on the sustainable use of natural resources. improving access to water and intensifying nutrition education and sharing best practice strategies are needed. the report contains a number of ideas with which i cannot but identify, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i share the view of the report's authors that every effort must be made to improve nutrition, food security and the fight against hunger in developing countries. the data show that stability is higher and emigration rates are lower in areas where food security is based on healthy and vibrant soils and productive agricultural ecosystems that are resilient to climate change. ways must be found to move from over-reliance on food imports to ensuring reliable domestic food production, with preference given to local crops that meet nutritional requirements. i believe that whatever the eu and individual member states' attitude to the cultivation of gm crops in the eu, we should not prevent the cultivation of gm crops in developing countries facing food shortages.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to see such positive efforts being made by the european union in restructuring nafsn to further promote human rights, reduce poverty, and cooperate effectively with local farmers and families in sub-saharan africa to mitigate the inadequacies which currently exist. this motion encapsulates the spirit of ‘true’ external affairs and highlights honest international cooperation between states. the pivot from a modern, business-oriented approach to wiser investments in family farming and agro—ecology clearly underlines this. as a result of such focus, we are able to move in line with previous agreements on climate change and sustainable agriculture as well as diversify crop production, increase living standards and develop rural areas – effectively reducing poverty. i will echo the acknowledgement of gender equality in the agricultural sector as integral to development – socially, economically, and politically. i would go even further and state gender equality as one of the most important issues in the fight against poverty as it utilises the full potential of women. that is why i support this motion and welcome even more progress in supporting our developing partners in sub-saharan africa.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted on the new alliance for food and nutrition security. this initiative was launched in 2012 under the auspices of the g8 as a public-private partnership to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. the eu is involved in the project as coordinator for malawi and côte d'ivoire. food and nutrition security is certainly a laudable goal, but the project itself has a number of shortcomings that this resolution is addressing. the european parliament, for example, warns against a repeat of the so-called green revolution, i.e. increasing productivity through the use of chemical fertilizers, mechanization and monocultures, as this approach can have serious environmental impacts. it also calls for more support for small farmers to prevent the interests of big business and land grabs from being overridden. however, in paragraph 72 the resolution 'urgently requests that g8 member states do not support genetically modified crops in africa'. i consider this export of ideologisation of a professional problem beyond the eu's borders to be unacceptable. nor does the eu have a strict ban on the cultivation of genetically modified crops. that's why i didn't support the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ when it was launched in 2012, the aim of the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) was to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa by leveraging private investment in agriculture. however, monoculture, mechanisation, biotechnology, dependence on fertilisers, long distribution channels and the production of export crops have proven to be harmful to the poorest communities and pose a risk to the environment. i voted in favour of this report, as i agree that, if we want to make it a genuine instrument of support for family farming and local economies in sub-saharan africa, we need to invest in a model of agriculture which is sustainable, pro-smallholder farming and pro-women, and which unlocks the potential of domestic and regional markets. only if we manage to do that will we realistically be able help 50 million people in sub-saharan africa out of poverty by 2020.
in writing. ‒ i support this report and appreciate the fact that the new alliance is committed to promoting growth based on agriculture. it also focuses on supporting smallholder farmers and helping to alleviate poverty, hunger and malnutrition. the new alliance should limit the use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides as much as possible, given their health and environmental impacts on local communities. all funding should be as transparent as possible. i am personally in favour of donors focusing their efforts on supporting education, training and technical advice for farmers. in addition to encouraging private investment, public investment in african agriculture needs to be revived. i prefer innovation in agroecology to increase food security and reduce poverty and hunger. however, these measures must go hand in hand with the protection of biodiversity and respect for indigenous knowledge and innovation.
in writing. the report calls for mandatory country-by-country accounting as part of the 'fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion'. i see in this a continuing effort by western eu states to prevent companies from taxing in the czech republic. the uniform accounting standards and mandatory reporting are a step towards uniform corporate taxation and tax shifting to countries with high corporate tax rates at the expense of the czech republic.
in writing. ‒ i am of the opinion that only simple accounting rules can be effectively implemented by users and controlled by supervisors. in this context, the g20 call for simplification of accounting standards for financial instruments and for a uniform approach to the international application of valuation standards in cooperation with supervisors can be recalled. given that most companies are small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), the commission should assess the possibility of developing common, high-quality and simplified accounting standards for smes.
in writing. ‒ international standards in accounting and auditing are essential for the efficient functioning of the internal market and of the capital markets. they strengthen accountability by reducing the information gap between investors and companies, protect investment, bring transparency and allow stakeholders to make informed economic decisions. this is why i voted in favour of the report, which assesses the application of these standards in the eu 10 years after their endorsement. i am particularly supportive of the commission’s intention to possibly develop common high-quality and simplified accounting standards for smes. i also believe that an impact assessment for every new accounting standard or change of a current accounting standard would be very useful. finally, i agree that parliament should have an active role in setting and implementing these standards.
in writing. i decided to abstain in the vote on the european parliament resolution on eu cooperation with the un and the african union in peacekeeping operations. i believe that it is of course true that peacekeeping operations are a form of crisis response and are intended to prevent armed conflict, restore, maintain or build peace, promote peace agreements and address complex emergencies and problems caused by failing or weak states, and that the aim of peacekeeping operations is to help create a stable, secure and more prosperous environment in the long term, but the resolutions ignore the fact that in the past, great peacekeeping missions have not been successful at all in terms of long-term stability and peace. i agree in principle with many of the demands in the minority report, such as that the responsibility for protection mechanism should not be used as a pretext for military intervention, that multinational companies and foreign powers should immediately end the plundering of natural resources and that reparations should be paid, that nato should withdraw from the african continent, that the merging of civilian and military capabilities should be stopped and that eu cooperation with nato and its interventions should be terminated, and that there should be a clear separation of the eu from the nato alliance. this does not change the fact that many countries on the african continent are on the brink of civil war and the eu must not stand by or abandon instruments that help to resolve conflicts peacefully.
in writing. i do not agree with the call in this report for member states to help train african armies. if france, for example, is interested in training or financing african armies, let it do so within its competence, but there is no reason to challenge the czech republic to do so. i agree with the report that open borders are one of the main factors in the spread of terrorism in africa. it is a pity that the governing meps do not understand the same thing in the case of europe. i disagree with the challenge to 'including women among mission staff as well as gender advisers'. it's unfortunate if some africans don't treat women nicely, but the inclusion of gender advisors in military missions doesn't seem to be making things better.
in writing. ‒ i am glad to see that this motion reiterates the importance of cooperation between the european union, african union, and the united nations – an essential tri—partnership for tackling the many trends which have emerged in the past decade. one very concerning trend is the rise of terrorist and insurgent groups in somalia, nigeria, and the sahel—sahara region, which has come to threaten the stability and sovereignty of surrounding states. they have taken advantage of porous borders and ungoverned areas to expand their control, making the importance of investment in conflict prevention and peace support operations (psos) vital to building african capabilities and accomplishing the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. along these lines, i believe we must continue to stress the importance of efficient and coordinated responses between the three international organisations, utilising the full potential of all resources – rather than increased funding as a solution – to effectively carry out any and all operations. i support this motion and look forward to seeing more strides made in this direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's own-initiative report on eu cooperation with the un and the african union (au) on peacekeeping missions, as i believe that we need to reflect also at european level on the quality of the current cooperation between the eu, the un and the au. cooperation with the au in particular deserves a great deal of attention today, because without cooperation with african countries, the major problems of our time, such as migration or terrorism, cannot be satisfactorily solved. these complex problems need to be addressed in a comprehensive manner using all instruments of international cooperation. the report makes it clear that the focus should be on compliance with funding rules and on avoiding duplication of effort between the institutions involved, but this does not mean that the eu cannot use, for example, its representation in african countries or offer cooperation to individual states or the au directly from the eu's position in order to achieve common objectives.
in writing. ‒ the security landscape in africa has changed dramatically in the last decade, with the emergence of terrorist and insurgent groups in somalia, nigeria, and the sahel—sahara region, which is why it was essential to review our peace support operations strategies. i voted in favour of this report, which evaluates the eu’s engagement with the un and the african union in peace support operations, as useful step allowing us to focus this review. for one, i am convinced that we should support african countries to build their own capacities, instead of them relying on external ones. i also agree with the report’s suggestion to increase the coordination between all actors, in order to tackle the challenges more efficiently and avoid unnecessary duplication. more investment in conflict prevention is also necessary. furthermore, while the lack of funds is not a problem, it is essential that we achieve better targeted funding. finally, sexual abuse by un personnel is highly unacceptable and must absolutely be halted if we want to restore confidence in our peace operations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report in the final, even though i don't agree with all the points. but in general, i think it is very important that initiatives to promote the peace process in african countries are as vocal as possible.
in writing. i have abstained on the report. the text includes a proposal which envisages a legislative solution to the problem, i.e. new eu regulations, which i do not consider to be a happy decision at the moment. i'm all for minimal or necessary interference in business in general. in this respect, i was satisfied with the text adopted by the committee. i do not want to underestimate the problems of smaller suppliers and primary producers, they should certainly be addressed. i see their joint activities at a pan-european level, such as the supply chain initiative, as an appropriate way to do this. they are better able to establish equivalence between suppliers than eu directives or regulations.
in writing. the issue of preventing unfair commercial practices is extremely important and serious. the strategic importance of the food supply chain is reflected in the fact that it employs more than 47 million people in the eu and accounts for around 7% of gross value added. in my view, the main obstacle to finding a common concept of a union solution is the wide current coverage of the problem in national legislation, which differs significantly in scope and in the way it is dealt with. i therefore consider it necessary that coordination should allow for freedom of choice of means of redress in the light of the existing legal arrangements of the member states. i am against the adoption of further eu legislation and i think it is effective to address this issue at national level. that's why i abstained.
in writing. unfair trading practices between enterprises in the food chain are often reduced to supplier-customer relationships of transnational trading chains. the fact remains that the public does indeed consider these relationships to be unfair, but unfair practices certainly include misleading country of origin labelling and other tricks. in many eu countries, retail chains are important players, often representing over 50% of the food market, and it is therefore important to identify unfair practices and, in line with the proposed procedures, to take steps to contribute to predictability and compliance with agreements, including risk liability and the elimination of unjustified requirements. it is known that some large companies are reluctant to provide written contracts to suppliers, seek to delay invoice payments or require long maturities. the effort is often to force the return of unsold goods, payments for so-called cataloging, or other unfair practices. typically, the supplier's forced share of the seller's discount shares. the abovementioned and other practices have been going on for many years and it is good that the ep is addressing these issues. only increased attention by the eu institutions and national states can make progress in eliminating this negative phenomenon, which has brought with it the predatory rise of large retail chains. the report suggests possible ways of improving the current situation, and i therefore fully support it.
in writing. when voting on the report on unfair trading practices with the proposed amendments by czesław siekierski, i voted in favour of the motion. i believe that unfair trading practices between large retail chains and small and medium-sized suppliers and farmers are a big problem in the eu in general. this behaviour not only results in unfair conditions for suppliers, who are often forced to sell their products below price and face further infringements of their rights. but the other consequences of these practices are poor working conditions for farmers, a lower quality food supply for consumers and food waste. the proposal therefore aims to ensure fair and transparent trade relations between manufacturers, suppliers and retail chains. this should ensure fair returns for farmers, a wide choice of food for consumers and at the same time reduce food waste. at present, the only legislation in the eu that exists is one that protects consumers against unfair commercial practices. however, there is no legislation at union level to ensure protection for the individual parts of the supply chain. it is therefore essential that the eu adopts legislation uniformly and effectively to combat unfair trading practices in all member states.
in writing. ‒ if traders pressure suppliers to lower prices, have long payment periods, withdraw from supplier contracts without giving reasons, they are usually entitled to do so, just as suppliers are entitled to find other customers. if anyone thinks that traders are abusing their power, it's a matter of trade law and enforcement in individual member states, and the eu has nothing to say about it.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report that addresses an issue that perhaps all of us have encountered in our daily lives, namely unfair trading practices in the food chain. these unfair practices cost suppliers between eur 30 and 40 trillion a year. these undesirable practices are known across the eu, which is why 20 member states have adopted legislation to combat these undesirable phenomena. i share the view that the fight against these undesirable practices, which have a negative impact on the most important thing, namely the health of consumers, should be regulated at european level, provided that the protection standards in the member states are not reduced in any way. that is why i supported the report.
in writing. i did not support the report on unfair trading practices because, in my view, it goes too far in regulating the contractual relationships in the food supply chain. i am of the opinion that intervention in market relations should only take place where there is evidence that those market relations are distorted and where it is really necessary. that's not the case in my opinion. i do not want an eu legal framework that dictates to food business operators the conditions under which they can enter into contracts. in effect, this means favouring one party to the contract over the other, and i consider this conceptually unhealthy.
in writing. unfair trading practices in the food or other supply chain can generally be considered to be unfair practices unilaterally used by one trading partner towards another. although it is not easy to assess this phenomenon in all contexts, statistics and market analyses show that these practices are also quite common in the eu and take many forms, which have often been felt by companies in the czech republic. these may include unilateral or retroactive changes to contractual terms, flat-rate fees that companies charge suppliers for being placed on a supplier list (pay to stay) or late payments, even for months. we must now take action. given that the effectiveness of self-regulatory mechanisms can be rightly doubted in this case, the report supports regulation at union level, which should lead to the proper functioning of markets and fair and transparent relationships between all actors in the supply chain.
in writing. ‒ the as the social democrats' shadow rapporteur, i supported this report because it gives a comprehensive picture of the situation in the food chain and at the same time calls on the commission to take concrete measures to redress the current market situation. unfair trading practices are a long-standing and serious problem affecting all parts of the supply chain. i also supported the amendments of the committee on agriculture and rural development because i agree with the provision that unfair trading practices can only be curbed if there is a framework legislation at eu level, which is in line with the wording of the whole report. the report also mentions the specific reasons for the need for a common european approach to this issue.
in writing. i supported the european parliament resolution on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. i consider this a very important problem for farmers and consumers. we are seeing it in individual countries, including the czech republic, but the problem is so closely linked to the eu's internal market that it deserves a european approach and a solution at eu level. the european parliament calls for the most appropriate means of protecting food producers and suppliers against unfair trading practices by retailers, most often retail chains. the debate and vote on this text took two different approaches. the imco approach was one of self-regulation and non-intervention through legislation. the agri committee took a different view, urging in its opinion 'the timely submission of a draft eu framework legislation' and thus favouring a legislative solution at eu level. in our group, the agri committee's position was ultimately the prevailing one, and i agree with it. i am of the opinion that voluntary self-regulatory solutions can help to cultivate trade relations, but cannot in themselves bring about a solution to the problem of unfair trade practices. my position is in line with the czech ministry of agriculture. i therefore supported the resolution as such and the amendments of the agri committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in line with the position of the czech republic. this is a complicated issue because unfair trading practices cannot be addressed by existing legislative instruments. the amendment to the law on significant market power has brought about some improvement in this situation in the czech republic, but it does not resolve the whole situation. given the international nature of some retail chains, a solution at international level would also be needed, namely the prohibition of unfair trading practices, which would protect smes, micro-enterprises and, of course, consumers, and provide a level playing field for retail chains across the eu.
in writing. ‒ unfair trading practices (utps), such as payment delays, restricted access to the market, or unplanned changes to contract terms are a serious problem for our economy. the problem is particularly evident in the food supply chain, where it can affect small food producers and retailers when their business partners are stronger than they are. in addition to leading to lower profits, food over—production and wastage, and ultimately reducing consumer choice, it hampers smes in their ability to invest and innovate.
in writing. - i supported the report. i am glad that the role of producer organisations is emphasised. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union are respected.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this report and to draw attention to the problem of unfair trading practices in the internal market of the european union. in my view, decisive and consistent action is needed to eradicate completely unfair trading practices in the eu food and supply chain. given the prevalence and deepening of this problem, the question of the effectiveness of self-regulatory market mechanisms is raised. in my view, this problem requires the introduction of regulation at union level in order to ensure the proper functioning of markets and fair and transparent relationships between all actors in the food and supply chain. improper practices must be clearly defined and prevented by the threat of severe sanctions.
in writing. ‒ i agree that it is good to use good technology in agriculture, but that should be the farmers' job. i disagree with the call on the commission to support policies that will encourage the development and deployment of precision farming technologies in farms of all types.
in writing. - although i've been reserved for this report for a long time, i've decided to support it. our group of social democrats has finally succeeded in getting the report to deal with food waste through amendments. this is one of the key problems that has received little attention in the long term. now, it's imperative that we have solutions to have sustainable agriculture that can feed the world's population. innovation and research should be part of the future of agriculture, which aims at safe and healthy food. i also believe that this report will help to improve the environment by reducing the use of chemicals, fertilisers and pesticides. we have also succeeded in making the precautionary principle the core of any authorisation of new plant protection products.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that investing in innovative practices in the agriculture sector is crucial for the eu to develop a model of sustainable agriculture and to remain competitive in this domain. i voted in favour of this report, which contains several concrete measures on how to boost innovation in this sector. our main task will be to develop more resource-efficient agricultural practices, encourage crop variety to ensure biodiversity, increase food safety and tackle food waste. this can be achieved through big data, a greater dialogue between genetic banks, skill development, research, crop rotation, but also through the removal of unnecessary and burdensome regulations. prioritising investment in the circular economy and climate-smart farming practices will be of particular relevance to achieve our goal.
in writing. - i voted against it. i agree that it's good to use various beneficial innovations in agriculture, but that's the role of the farmers themselves. i disagree with the call on the commission to propose a more ambitious, overarching strategy with measurable outcomes, aimed at aligning and orienting research and innovation with political priorities.
‒ i am aware that farming practices have been changing since the very beginning of agriculture. as a result of these changes, agriculture has become one of the most dynamic sectors of the economy, with highly modern practices in place. but right now, we're facing the problem that by 2050, the world's population is going to grow to more than nine billion people. therefore, the common agricultural policy needs to be more focused on the needs of farmers without abandoning its policy objectives, i.e. it should ensure sufficient flexibility to enhance innovation and competitiveness. i believe that the key is to support production through targeted incentives and investments. on the other hand, there is also a need to update outdated legislation to provide a framework for new solutions, for example for the use of manure fertilisers instead of manure. eu agriculture will produce high quality products with added value, and at the same time provide knowledge-based solutions to help feed a growing world population with ever-increasing demands.
in writing. ‒ the expected rise in the world’s population to 9.1 billion by 2050 will require a 60% increase in food supply and a 24% increase in crop yields, according to the food and agriculture organisation (fao). this is why i voted in favour of this report, which makes a series of observations and recommendations as how to meet the challenges of climate change, rising food demand, population growth and threats to the environment. i firmly believe that economic development and sustainable production are not mutually exclusive and are achievable mainly through innovation, research and development, new governance, business models and improved agronomy. concretely, i am particularly supportive of the ideas of improving the regulation to make it more coherent and clear with room for entrepreneurship, encouraging transfer of knowledge from researchers to farmers, creating new financing opportunities for farmers, as well as encouraging the use of innovative agriculture techniques.
the question posed by the blue card. dear mrs atkinson, you agree with some of the people who are in favour of the uk remaining in the union that those who want to leave the european union often do not know the facts and say nonsense. you said that we in the libe committee are in favour of opening the borders of the european union. when was the last time you attended a libe committee meeting? and when did you ever hear us say anything like that?
mr president, the deal with turkey basically broke up the business models of the smugglers between greece and turkey. and of course what we are seeing is reorganisation on a route which is much more risky and is a deadly one. in this respect, i must say that your package is an essential one. we can discuss the details – we might have nuances and some disagreements – but it is the right approach. i do not see anything problematic in linking, basically, development aid, cooperation investment with control of migration flows, and i see no problem in linking it with the root of the problems which, of course, exist. i obviously leave aside the fact that we have got human rights problems in turkey and elsewhere and we will have to tackle them. i would like to say that this is the right approach, but it will not work out well – or sufficiently well – if we do not have a strict, vigorous, serious return policy. this is something that we need to work on. if we have that and we have a balance, i am sure that we will finally create a unity in the european union, a unity that we need for a european solution. i think that, at that moment, the polarisation that we have on some other aspects of that issue will go away.
in writing. the alde group and i have been calling for a long time for legal migration to be made possible in the context of migration flows, for example by revising the directive on the european blue card for new workers, especially those with qualifications. these people should have a standard opportunity to enter the eu legally if they meet objective criteria. i am pleased that the european commission is putting forward a proposal to codify such a reform. certain sectors in europe are suffering from labour shortages and this could be one way to address them. in the czech republic, for example, it is estimated that there is a shortage of 50,000 skilled workers in the automotive sector alone. i've said for a long time that having control of migration means, among other things, that there are legal options for those who qualify to apply within the european union. legal migration is also undoubtedly one of the ways to increase our competitiveness and innovation potential. the brain drain to the us, including from eu countries, is a very good example.
in writing. i welcome the presentation of the migration pact by the commission as a step towards real help and recognition of the essential, though less emphasised, fact that migration-related problems must be tackled first and foremost in the countries where they arise whether they are countries that refugees have had to leave or countries they are passing through. it will now be important to focus on the details of the implementation of the proposed measures, including for example how these proposals will be financed or to which projects they will be directed, so that the aid is truly effective and long-term, based on partnership with the countries mentioned.
for the alde group. madam chair, commissioner, we are eagerly awaiting the introduction of the new skills agenda. i look forward to it all the more because it is one of the key issues on which my colleagues from the alde group and i have been working for a long time. when we talk about new skills, we should always look at them in relation to the real needs of the labour market. you yourself, commissioner, mentioned that almost 40% of european companies surveyed said they had difficulty finding employees with the required skills, including digital skills. the mismatch between skills and demand in different countries could be overcome by higher labour mobility. therefore, we should promote it more, for example through a system of mutual recognition of qualifications or even indirectly through a greater emphasis on digital literacy and language learning. member states should also take advantage of opportunities offered by, for example, the european social fund and increase the adaptability of the workforce. it is our duty to show young people how the labour market really works and to provide them with adequate practical training during their studies. we should work together to make apprenticeships and technical education more attractive to young people. let us pay more attention to dual training - learning and work - and work to raise the standards of education and training. new recommendations for the development of practical skills are key to the effective integration of people into the labour market. therefore, we should focus in particular on better forecasting future skills and qualifications needs. to do that, we need to connect the world of education to the world of work. and if our european economy is to continue to grow and remain competitive, taking the above measures is the necessary step. commissioner, thank you for your proactive approach and your openness to discussion and i wish you well that the launch of the new skills agenda is a steering in the right direction.
commissioner, i want to thank you for your opening statement. unfortunately, we do not yet have the basis for this agenda, so what i will be talking about will be partly questions and partly the expression of some expectations, because of course it is good to have a european skills agenda. you mentioned yourself what a way out is. we are still failing to reduce the number of pupils failing in primary education sufficiently, we are not improving the quality of education, on average 20% of pupils in primary education are still not reaching the basic level of education. i would like to ask you if the starting point for the new skills agenda is this international research - we will have a new international pisa survey this year - or if it is just the results of the labour market. i would assume that the new skills agenda will be one that looks at improving the quality of those very basic literacy, basic competence, skills, but will also, of course, reflect the demands of the labour market. it is impossible to look at the labour market and not see the importance of basic literacy for lifelong learning.
mr president, i would like to address the dangerous situation facing a significant number of bangladeshi garment workers. almost 20 million people depend on the production of clothing. there are more than 5,400 supply factories operating in the country, employing nearly 3.6 million workers. but bangladeshi workers are among the lowest paid in the world, with minimum wages that do not cover even their basic needs. the low cost of human labor coupled with a virtually unenforceable right offers multinational corporations substantial impunity and the ideal opportunity to shift all conceivable risks onto the workers themselves. add to this the dangerous work environment, which often either catches fire or completely collapses on the defenseless worker. i hope that the high representative will not forget this issue in her talks with the bangladesh side and will speak out for a stronger role for trade unions in this area and an end to the exploitation of workers.
mr president, commissioner, if there is one area where the benefits and almost the necessity of cooperation at eu level are clearly evident, it is in the field of space projects. i had the honor of coordinating the resolution on market penetration in the space sector. i would like to thank my colleagues from the other political groups who have been involved in its preparation. the european union is investing a lot of effort and money in the infrastructure of the galileo and copernicus projects. i trust both systems will be completed quickly. but it's as if we're a little bit missing the huge potential that the space data market has for innovation, growth, jobs and a whole host of other areas. our resolution identifies technical and market barriers. for example, the commission must better ensure the use of the galileo and copernicus projects in european union programmes and policies. we need platforms for unobstructed access to data. we need to help our start-ups and smes break into the market with their apps and services. it is also important to speed up the production of the galileo chipsets. i would also like to emphasise the synergies between the two programmes, whether it be integrated applications or marketing activities. the already functioning security system of the galileo project is also essential. i am confident that our recommendations will be reflected in the commission's forthcoming space strategy.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to underline firstly that alde gave its support to the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and we remain supportive with maybe some question marks. i would especially give credit to the commission for having had the courage to launch something that we have not seen from the commission before. commissioner, let me follow a little the structure of your introduction. you spoke, among other things, of widening and deepening of the internal market. i agree, but there is more to it. i think that if we speak of the investment environment, of the climate, of the conditions, then we should also look at the existing legislation, without lowering standards – this is not the point that i would like to raise – but still cutting significantly the administrative burden for businesses, especially for smes. this is where i would expect a serious initiative from the commission with a serious and thorough review of the existing legislation in this respect. in terms of the financial means that have already been invested, we were aiming for eur 60 billion – so let us say eur 20 billion a year – and we were around eur 12 billion for the first year. i do not think that this is a major problem. every programme has a slow start, but it means that in the second year we have to have more than eur 20 billion and, in the third year, most likely around eur 30 billion if we are to meet it. more of a concern is what kind of projects are we really financing? that is where, so far, i see the weakness of efsi. if we look at the projects – and i have not seen any information about the last ten or so, maybe we are seeing a positive curve – but 90% of these projects are very similar to those that we would be financing from cohesion funding – let us say, low—risk eib funding, cef, horizon whatever – so i am not sure that we are really meeting the objective of the added value, the additional financing and the risky projects. i think this is something that we should focus on – or maybe i am ill informed and maybe the eib could do better, as well as the commissioner, in really portraying the difference between the projects that we finance from other instruments and the high-risk projects. all this is against the background that we have taken resources from horizon 2020, as well as cef, so we also need to balance the positive value against the background that we have reduced that sum somewhere else. so regarding the expectations – without at the moment discussing prolongation or not – we need to review the quality of the projects and we should also maybe have a look, in terms of the review, at whether the eib in the future should not rather be financing the lower—risk projects with a lower share, but with a higher share on the high-risk projects. i think that then we can really deliver. one final remark: you have spoken about the innovative, the creative and also the high—risk circular economy. it is absolutely clear that this has to be a key priority, which in fact could create a whole new industry. am i wrong in saying that so far one single project has been financed? that is completely insufficient. so let us have a look at the weaknesses. we are happy to work with you on that.
in writing. i think that, one year after the approval of this investment plan here in the european parliament, we can say without fear that it is a success. this is exactly what europe needs to overcome its fear of new investment and restart its economy after the crisis. the available statistics clearly show that drawing on the fund, as currently legally set up, is beneficial not only for individual actors in the member states, but above all shows a high eu added value. i believe that investing in science and research, as well as in the digital single market, is crucial for europe, in areas where we are still lagging behind the rest of the world. as a former entrepreneur, i am particularly pleased that smes have also benefited from the efsi, as they are the driving force of our european economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of this resolution as i believe there is a case for parliament to investigate what the european union and its member states do in order to fight money laundering and limit ways for systematic tax avoidance. the panama papers revelations show there has been, apparently, such a practice in place and eu citizens should see whether it means that the relevant eu legislation was by-passed or not properly implemented.
in writing. i supported the establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate possible breaches of eu law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. i regard the establishment of the committee, initiated by the social democrats, not only as a reaction by the european parliament to the publication of information in the so-called panama papers case, but also as a further concrete contribution to the public debate on the unsustainability of the current situation of tax evasion in the eu member states. in the context of the panama papers case, it is evident that, in order to establish tax transparency and fair taxation of multinational companies, it is necessary, inter alia, to assess the links between the legal framework of the union and the member states and the tax systems of third countries, which will be one of the main objectives of the committee of inquiry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions and maladministration in the application of european union law in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. such an inquiry is important not only to clarify any wrongdoings, but also to safeguard the credibility of eu law. the panama papers have been a shock and we need to work to avoid it happening again.
in writing. ‒ since all the necessary conditions have been met, i have voted in favour of visa-free short-stay visits to palau. visa-free travel for short stays of up to 90 days applies mainly to tourists, diplomats, etc. the agreement also marks the culmination of a deepening of relations between the eu and the republic of palau, which is politically very important in the framework of the cotonou agreement. it is also a way of intensifying economic and cultural relations and strengthening political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ this proposal will give palau citizens the opportunity to travel to the eu without a visa and in return we will be able to travel to palau without a visa. this is a visa-free stay for tourist or business purposes for a maximum of 90 days. palau is a republic in the pacific ocean with a population of about 20,000. the rate of visa refusal is low and palau does not even pose a threat in terms of illegal migration. that's why i was in favor of visa-free.
in writing. relations between the eu and the republic of palau are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states (the cotonou agreement). the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver can facilitate business travel, attracting investment and boosting tourism. the economy of the republic of palau is based on the services sector, which generates 86% of gdp. by adopting this agreement, we can contribute to the rapprochement of relations between the eu and the pacific region, strengthening economic and cultural relations as well as dialogue on various issues. i voted to approve such an agreement.
in writing. the abolition of the visa requirement for short stays between the european union and the republic of palau is a logical step in the light of the cotonou agreement. in that context, the union committed itself, within the framework of its sustainable development strategy, to deepening cooperation and integrating the african, caribbean and pacific states into the world economy. the abolition of the visa requirement may have a positive impact on the development of tourism and services and thus on the overall economic development of this island state. in addition, as a democratic state with a strong emphasis on human rights, palau represents a relevant and trusted partner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-palau agreement, which allows visa-free travel for the citizens of the eu and for the citizens of palau when travelling to each other’s countries for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. decided upon in the context of the cotonou agreement, this agreement constitutes an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement also reflects the considerable progress made by palau in recent years. finally, i believe it will have a positive effect on palau’s economy by simplifying travel for business people, facilitating investment and boosting the already blooming tourism sector.
in writing. ‒ the kingdom of tonga has fulfilled all the necessary conditions and preconditions for granting short-stay visa-free access. the visa waiver for stays of up to 90 days in the eu mainly concerns tourists, diplomats or exchange students and is a significant administrative facilitation for tongan citizens. this visa-free travel agreement is also further evidence of the deepening of eu-kingdom of tonga relations and is another way to intensify economic and cultural relations and to strengthen political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i was therefore happy to support granting visa-free access.
in writing. ‒ this proposal will give the citizens of tonga the opportunity to travel to the eu without a visa and in return we will be able to travel to tonga without a visa. this is a visa-free stay for tourist or business purposes for a maximum of 90 days. tonga is a kingdom in the pacific ocean with a population of about 100,000. the visa refusal rate is low and tonga does not even pose a threat in terms of illegal migration. that's why i was in favor of visa-free.
in writing. relations between the eu and the kingdom of tonga are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states (the cotonou agreement). the visa waiver agreement shall allow for stays in the territory of the other party of a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver would apply to all categories of persons (holders of travel, diplomatic, service passports) except for persons travelling for the purpose of gainful employment. tonga's economy is based mainly on agriculture, and tourism is gradually developing. he could be the one to back this deal. i voted to close it.
in writing. the kingdom of tonga is a country in oceania whose economy is based mainly on services, apart from tuna fishing and pumpkin farming. the tonga government is taking steps to remove the obstacles to the democratic reforms of the young constitutional monarchy so far, these have been measures to increase private sector participation in the economy or efforts to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women. as a social democrat, i believe that the abolition of the visa requirement can be a positive signal to this country in the sense that the efforts it is making are right and have our support. the agreement will therefore be a further step towards strengthening economic and cultural relations and deepening political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-tonga agreement, which will allow visa-free travel for the citizens of the eu and for the citizens of tonga when travelling to each other’s territories, for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this is a highly significant step for the political relations between the eu and the kingdom of tonga, which have developed in the context of the cotonou agreement. i am certain that this visa exemption will also send out a positive message of support for the recent efforts made by the kingdom, and further intensify the cooperation on sensitive issues such as the death penalty, freedom of religion and belief, and gender equality.
in writing. i supported granting short-stay visa-free access to colombia, given that all the necessary conditions were met. the granting of visa-free access will facilitate short-stay visits of up to 90 days for students, diplomats or tourists. it is also a step in the long-term deepening of relations with the union and another way to intensify economic and cultural relations and strengthen political dialogue with colombia, including on human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - while i voted for visa-free for palau or tonga, i voted against visa-free for colombia. visa-free travel to colombia poses a certain risk, given that the rate of refusal of visa applications has been relatively high, at 4-8%. there is also an increased risk of drug trafficking.
in writing. colombia is now one of the few south american countries whose citizens need a visa to travel to the eu. in my view, this should also change, given that colombia is the fourth economic partner of the union in the region. in terms of the political situation and the state of the state institutions, the republic of colombia is one of the oldest formal democracies on the continent and its political system is relatively stable. i see no reason to extend the visa waiver any further.
in writing. i have today supported the european parliament's consent to the conclusion of the eu-colombia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. this consent of the european parliament is granted after the member states, which are the only ones capable of assessing the security aspect, have agreed to the introduction of a visa-free regime with colombia and after the conclusion of a visa-free agreement between the eu and colombia, which ensures equal treatment of all eu citizens without any discrimination. the european parliament is therefore now giving its consent to the conclusion of this treaty, after the advisability of introducing a visa-free regime has already been assessed by the member states. it may be added that the limitation of the period of stay to 90 days in every 180 days applies to all third-country nationals. the same applies to the agreement with tonga and palau, which the ep also approved today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-colombia agreement, which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the eu and for the citizens of colombia when travelling to each other’s country for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this is a much-awaited step, as colombia is one of the few countries in latin american whose nationals still need a visa to travel to europe. this agreement will be an opportunity to bring the peoples of europe and colombia closer together, and will also be beneficial in terms of economic cooperation and trade, as colombia has become one of the most dynamic and open economies in the region. finally, i hope that this will contribute to concluding the final peace agreement between the government and farc in havana.
in writing. ‒ the proposal involves the abolition of many duties on technological products such as gps navigation, mobile phones, satellites, magnetic resonance imaging devices, etc. the agreement now includes 82 countries, including taiwan and the us. this is how i envision a trade agreement, not like ttip.
in writing. i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement in the form of a declaration on the expansion of trade in information technology products (ita). this is a multilateral agreement within the wto that will lead to lower prices for consumers but also for manufacturers whose production depends on imported components. in view of technological developments in the sector, the members decided to update the goods coverage of that agreement and have proceeded to update it. new additions to the list include semiconductors, gps navigation, smart cards, optical lenses, ultrasound, and microscopes. most of the it goods concerned will be traded duty-free from july 2016, with further duties being eliminated in 2019 and 2021, and the remaining duties being eliminated by 2023 at the latest.
in writing. ‒ in the last two decades, the it sector has experienced tremendous changes and trade in the sector has quadrupled. this is why i voted in favour of expanding and adjusting the agreement in information technology products (ita) to new products reflecting today’s reality. this agreement requires that each participant eliminates and binds customs duties at zero on a most favoured nation basis for all information technology (it) products covered. by eliminating approximately 65% of tariff lines by mid-2016 and making almost all imports of the relevant products duty free by 2019, this will be the first major tariff cutting deal since the creation of the wto. the potential of this agreement to create jobs and boost gdp growth is therefore great.
in writing. i supported the report because the business rules for the exchange of high-tech products are very important for innovation cycles. the duty-free market access granted to ita participants has played a very important role in the enormous development and expansion of trade that has taken place in the it sector in the almost 20 years of ita implementation, which i acknowledge.
in writing. ‒ by abstaining, i allowed this proposal to pass, which allows for the introduction of control measures as regards the subjecting of the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- (((1-pyrrolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pyrrolidinovalerophenone, α-pvp) to control measures. i am of the opinion that the authorisation process for potentially toxic substances should not be a matter for parliament to vote on, that it should be a matter for experts in the authorities who will have studies and scientific knowledge of the benefits and harms of such substances.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on new psychotropic substances, namely 1-phenyl-2- (((1-pyrrolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pyrrolidinovalerophenone, α-pvp). the aim of this draft council decision is to invite member states to subject α-pvp to control measures and criminal sanctions under their legislation, which are in line with their obligations under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. the proposal is based on council decision 2005/387/jha on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, which provides for a three-step procedure that may lead to a new psychoactive substance being subject to control measures throughout the union. i believe that the proposed measures are of great importance in order to avoid the risk to human health from these substances, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of subjecting the new psychoactive substance, α-pvp, a potent psychostimulant, to control measures across the union, as there have been 115 deaths and 191 acute intoxications registered in eight member states reported where α-pvp was detected. despite the limited scientific evidence available on α-pvp, the acute toxicity of α-pvp is such that it can cause severe harms to the health of individual. in addition, observations in animals suggest similar effects with those observed with other stimulants. i therefore strongly agree that α-pvp should be subject to control measures across the union.
in writing. when voting on the report on the ratification of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of dangerous and noxious substances, i voted in favour of the motion. the objective of the report is to express the consent of the council to the adoption by the european parliament of the 2010 protocol to the convention. the convention itself aims to ensure prompt and effective compensation for damage caused by the escape of dangerous and harmful substances during their transport by sea. the protocol brings change, in particular, in the area of stricter pollution liability regimes. in the event of ratification of the convention as amended by the protocol by member states, the resulting legislation may partially overlap with the adaptation under directive 2004/35/ec aimed at preventing and remedying environmental damage. the report therefore recommends that the council address this issue in the adoption process. the report also recommends, inter alia, that the integrity and effectiveness of the eu's common rules should not be adversely affected by the international obligations arising from the convention, and warns against the possibility of the continued existence of two regimes, one eu and the other international, of legal liability for marine pollution. i agree with the report's proposals as they stand.
in writing. ‒ the czech republic has no sea, so the protocol does not apply to it. i agree with the principle that the polluter should repair and compensate for the damage done. but the treaty will be ratified by the individual member states, not the union, which is why i abstained.
in writing. on 17 december 2015, parliament received a letter requesting its consent to the draft council decision on the ratification by member states and their accession on behalf of the union to the 2010 protocol to the hns convention. the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, 1996, is the last international maritime organisation (imo) convention dealing with liability and compensation for damage arising from the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied petroleum gas (lpg), which has not yet been ratified. the imo has gained experience with similar international regimes governing liability for damage caused by other maritime activities, such as the transport of oil by tankers, and has adopted this international agreement, as amended by the 2010 protocol to the hns convention, to complement the maritime liability convention system with a dedicated instrument. the 1996 hns convention and the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have not yet entered into force. since i consider the protocol to be important, i have spoken in favour of its ratification.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ratification and accession of eu members to the 2010 protocol to the hazardous and noxious substances (hns) convention. this convention ensures uniform application of rules on liability and compensation in connection with accidents caused by ships carrying hns at sea across the eu, and ensures availability of sufficient funds for compensation of victims of such accidents. considering the nature of shipping as a global business with a cross-boundary impact, i do believe that an international regime rather than regional solutions is better suited to tackle this type of challenge. this protocol would also be an opportunity to frame a coherent policy at eu level.
in writing. when voting on the report on the aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters in the context of the ratification of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of dangerous and noxious substances, i voted in favour of the motion. the objective of the report is to express the consent of the council to the adoption by the european parliament of the 2010 protocol to the convention. the report takes account of the related aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters. the main objective of the protocol is to strengthen the liability regime for marine pollution by dangerous substances in connection with their transport. in the event of ratification of the convention as amended by the protocol, the resulting legislation of chapter iv of the protocol dealing with civil matters may partially overlap with certain rules under the brussels i regulation. the protocol creates a restrictive system of jurisdiction, whereas the brussels i regulation leaves the choice of jurisdiction to the parties. the report therefore aims, inter alia, to alert the council to the possibility of such an irregularity in the event of the accession of member states to the convention as amended by the 2010 protocol. it is essential that the convention guarantee the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for damage resulting from accidents caused by vessels carrying dangerous goods. the report also calls for the convention to be ratified by the member states within two years at the latest. i agree with the report's requirements, which are set out above, and that is why i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the czech republic has no sea, so the protocol does not apply to it. i agree with the principle that the polluter should repair and compensate for the damage done. but the treaty will be ratified by the individual member states, not the union, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ratification and accession of eu members to the 2010 protocol to the hazardous and noxious substances (hns) convention. this convention ensures uniform application of rules on liability and compensation in connection with accidents caused by ships carrying hns at sea across the eu, and ensures availability of sufficient funds for compensation of victims of such accidents. considering the nature of shipping as a global business with a cross-boundary impact, i do believe that an international regime rather than regional solutions is better suited to tackle this type of challenge. this protocol would also be an opportunity to frame a coherent policy at eu level.
madam president, i would just like to point out that i wanted to speak on the next point which also concerns the philippines, and that is the trade strategy, but i would venture to say that if this point is also called the philippines and cooperation with the european union, even with regard to the accession of croatia, then perhaps my speech will also bear this point. i supported both recommendations because the philippines and south-east asia in general are very strategic regions for the european union. a region that is growing and that needs our help. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment. i think we should give public authorities in the philippines support, although after the election of a new president, we should perhaps wait a while to see how he will react.
in writing. - i voted yes. i do not want to prevent croatia from joining an agreement which was drawn up before its accession to the eu and therefore without it, even though i do not agree with the agreement as such and voted against the text of the agreement itself.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, and the philippines, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu. this will allow croatia to become a party to the agreement, which strengthens bilateral relations between both countries in the areas of general principles and political dialogue, foreign policy, economic, trade and sectorial cooperation.
in writing. - i don't agree with this deal. the philippines is in the midst of a civil war, with islamic state, al-qaeda, the moro islamic liberation front and other islamist groups. the agreement that promises the philippine government european subsidies and imposes a european conception of human rights will not improve the situation in the philippines. i regard an agreement like this as a kind of european imperialism, an attempt to influence the states of the world in its own image. this kind of interference could lead to another collapse of the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving consent to the conclusion of the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation, an agreement that strengthens bilateral relations between both countries in the areas of general principles and political dialogue, foreign policy, economic, trade and sectorial cooperation. this consent will allow the agreement to be ratified and implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the framework partnership agreement between the eu member states and the philippines. although the importance of this country is sometimes underestimated, the eu's partnership with it is undoubtedly of great importance. this year marks the 25th anniversary of the partnership, and deepening not only economic relations is the goal of both partners. for example, as the philippines exports labour, there is a need to ensure that human rights are not violated. the ratification of the framework agreement with the philippines will provide a platform for enhanced cooperation and institutionalise long-term relations, particularly in areas such as development, trade, labour rights and human rights dialogue.
in writing. the resolution has its positive aspects, in particular support for the fight against corruption and the protection of human rights. on the other hand, the eu's drive to conclude an eu-asean free trade agreement, the philippines' maritime conflict with china and the related rearmament of the philippines, the philippines' alliance with the us in the fight against terrorism and the promotion of public-private partnerships for infrastructure development are problematic. the philippines has been and is heavily supported by the us, especially in the context of the maritime conflict with china. the philippine government continues to support the country's armament in light of china's activities. the resolution is more objective than expected, but still refers to 'china's growing assertiveness', while some parts about the us were not adopted at all. the us, not the eu, is the key player in the philippines' fight against terrorism. moreover, the us is not only involved in the region for the purpose of fighting terrorism, but also in the context of a maritime conflict with china. the resolution emphasizes the cooperation between the us and the philippines. although the resolution has its positive aspects, i could not support it because of the issues raised above.
in writing. ‒ i don't agree with us calling on the philippine government to invest in new technologies and the internet. that's for private companies to do, not the government. i don't agree with this deal either. the agreement that promises the philippine government european subsidies and imposes a european conception of human rights will not improve the situation in the philippines. i regard an agreement like this as a kind of european imperialism, an attempt to influence the states of the world in its own image. this kind of interference could lead to another collapse of the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation, which marks an important step towards strengthening bilateral relations and the eu’s role in south-east asia, based on shared universal values such as democracy and human rights. the relation between the philippines and the eu is based on strong historical ties, and today the philippines is a key partner for the eu in terms of trade and political cooperation, as well as in the global fight against terrorism. i hope that this agreement will open new horizons for trade, investment, foreign policy cooperation and cultural exchange and will allow this relationship to grow even further over the coming decades. despite this new achievement however, the eu should continue providing financial support and capacity-building assistance to the philippines for poverty alleviation and tackling climate change.
in writing. tunisia is a strange country. a person familiar with european history will find here the ruins of carthage and traces of the ancient rulers of the berbers, who today call themselves the kabyles. in addition to ancient roman monuments, the visitor finds an oriental culture, one of the holy sites of islam kairuan , and a number of beautiful recreational centers. secondary and higher education is mainly french-speaking, and the country is relatively stable. the problems facing the current government are "south european". low economic growth, high unemployment among college graduates and women. the situation in neighbouring libya is particularly volatile. several assassinations and terrorist attacks have had a negative impact on tourism development. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. to support further reforms, the european commission is proposing a medium-term loan of eur 500 million. given that most mediterranean countries have an eu partnership agreement, but tunisia is currently one of the few countries in the region considered stable, i believe it is appropriate to support the programme and at the same time ask the european commission to prepare a report showing how the funds have been used and informing the ep of the measures taken by the tunisian government to stabilise the economic situation and develop democratic structures.
in writing. ‒ i am against sending 800 million euros from the pockets of european taxpayers as economic aid to tunisia. helping poor countries is free trade. i, on the other hand, support the liberalization of trade with tunisia, which will strengthen its stability more than subsidies and loans.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the proposal to provide further macro-financial assistance to tunisia. i am fully aware that this country is in a very difficult situation, it has been the target of several assassinations. the political and regional situation is highly volatile, in particular due to neighbouring libya. i agree that it is necessary to prevent further destabilization of the region. however, i am not sure that the eur 500 million in question today will actually end up in the hands of those who need it. what control mechanisms are in place? and where is the guarantee that the funds sent will actually be used for the purpose for which they are intended? i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ tunisia's economy is largely based on tourism. it was hit very hard by the terrorist attacks in 2015. today, we see the remnants of that act in the form of persistent unemployment and subsequent protests. so i have encouraged medium and long-term loans that can be made to this country. tunisia fulfils the conditions laid down by the european union. the third wave of assistance should focus on improving public financial management, the tax system and the regulatory framework for trade and investment. if tunisia improves its economic and social situation with european assistance, democracy will be consolidated and security will be increased in the southern neighbourhood. however, i also voted in favour of the provision requiring the european commission to ensure effective protection of the union's financial interests and thus to carry out checks and audits. the european union has the means to help countries in dire need whose development will benefit the member states themselves. on the other hand, this does not mean that we can afford to waste the limited financial resources provided by european citizens.
in writing. ‒ despite the many challenges it is facing, tunisia continues making very significant progress, proving that it is indeed capable of establishing a real democratic transition and carrying out the reforms needed for economic modernisation. this is why i support the proposal for a second macro-financial assistance (mfa) programme for tunisia, totalling eur 500 million, which will be granted in the form of medium-term financial-market loans on advantageous conditions. accompanying the successor imf programme, this assistance programme will support the efforts made by tunisia to improve its budgetary position and balance of payments and bring about a climate more conducive to investment. i also hope that this will positively contribute to the current negotiation of a free-trade agreement with the eu.
in writing. i supported the report because tunisia is a relatively stable country in a region of north africa which is so important to us and as such also needs financial assistance.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the introduction of anti-avoidance rules, because it introduces greater control of tax evasion by large corporations, while promoting measures that give these companies sufficient room to manoeuvre in cases where tax evasion is not committed. the proposed directive differentiates its measures according to the size of firms and their turnover, so as not to ruin small and medium-sized firms. i consider the directive adopted to be a good step towards reducing tax evasion, which deprives the member states and the european union as a whole of a considerable amount of money each year.
in writing. in today's vote on the report setting out concrete measures against aggressive tax planning, i voted in favour of the motion. on april 3, 2016, documents from the international law firm mossack fonseca, also known as the panama papers, were released. the publication of the affair only brought to light the well-known problem of tax havens. according to an oecd study, nations lose between $100 billion and $240 billion annually because of aggressive tax planning by multinational corporations. these multibillion-dollar tax evasions are one of the causes of the depletion of public budgets. i am a firm believer that taxes should be paid where profits are made. it is essential that the eu adopt the necessary instruments to ensure this requirement. the eu must send a clear signal that its objective is to ensure tax justice and to prevent tax dumping in the eu, through concrete and functional measures. that is the view expressed in the report adopted today by the european parliament, which i very much welcome.
in writing. ‒ i strongly disagree with the view that the commission should publish as soon as possible an ambitious proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base and the legislative arm should conclude negotiations on this key proposal as soon as possible. i have long opposed all attempts to unify the corporate tax base in the eu, which i see as an attempt by high-tax states to carve out a share of the tax paid by international companies in the czech republic.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on combating tax evasion. according to an oecd study, every year, governments lose between $100 billion and $240 billion in tax revenue because of unfair tax practices. i understand that this is a significant loss that needs to be fought. i identify with many of the tools and ideas in the report. however, the rapporteur also points out that uniform tax policy rules need to be introduced across the eu. as i still believe that fiscal policy should remain a competence of the member states, i abstained in the final vote.
on the one hand, the suffering of public budgets, on the other, the multi-billion tax evasion. according to an oecd study, nations lose between $100 billion and $240 billion annually because of aggressive tax planning by multinational corporations. the fight against tax havens and tax evasion is one of the s&d group's long-term priorities. i support the clear message of mr bayet's report that taxes must be paid where profits are made, as well as the specific demands for effective action against aggressive tax planning. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported the report the ep is presenting under the consultation procedure on the eu directive against tax avoidance. the shadow rapporteur for this text was my colleague luděk niedermayer, whom i thank for the quality of his work on this important subject. in line with the g20 and oecd recommendations on combating tax fraud, the directive introduces rules to ensure fairer taxation of large companies by targeting the most commonly used methods of tax avoidance. large multinational corporations are now able to exploit differences in tax rules between countries and thus artificially reduce the amount of tax paid. these practices fundamentally distort competition smes lack the capacity to look for loopholes in tax laws and to set up shell companies in tax havens. the directive will therefore also help small businesses. the elimination of the most common tax avoidance practices should also increase the tax revenues of european countries, which may open the way to lower tax rates. the european parliament is consulted only on tax rules and decisions are taken by the finance ministers by unanimity. i hope, however, that the council will take account of some of our additional proposals, for example on rules against so-called 'box companies'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which amongst other things, limits at 20% and up to eur 2 million deductions of loan interest paid by companies, the provision which states that profits entering europe will be taxed at the legal rate of the country of entry if they have not previously been taxed at a level of at least 15% outside the eu, and limits the use of the mechanism of depositing patents, by clarifying the definition of investments in research and development.
in writing. i voted against the report because some of the points in it seem to be the first step towards tax harmonization and too much interference with the tax rules of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i support the fight against tax havens and tax evasion, because taxes should be paid where profits are generated. however, the proposed report is unacceptable given the reference to the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base, which is a risky step towards a single eu tax policy, with the consequence of undermining tax competition within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the report presented because i am convinced that harmonising european tax systems is important for the creation of economic and monetary union. i think that member states should find common ground on taxation, because fair and efficient taxation of businesses is the cornerstone of a single and trustworthy market. i believe that businesses must pay taxes where their profits are made, because national budgets around the world are losing $100 billion to $240 billion a year because of aggressive tax planning by multinational corporations. this is a significant loss of government revenue, reducing the ability of states to invest and thus support job creation, fight poverty and develop effective health care systems for all.
in writing. ‒ respect for fundamental human rights and the rule of law is not only a cornerstone of the eu, but also an essential element in the effective fight against terrorism. inhumane practices in interrogation and torture are in any case punishable. but in this case, i think we should leave the decision to investigate the cia misconduct reported by the us senate to the individual member states. that is why i abstained this time. the eu as such should of course focus on a constructive dialogue with the us, a capable ally in the fight against the global phenomenon of terrorism. i believe that the key is the effective exchange of information, but also administrative assistance and the sharing of best practices.
in writing. ‒ as a long-standing opponent of ttip, i understand that the commission, as the negotiator of this treaty, is in a very difficult situation in relation to the parliament's resolution of 11 february 2015 on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia. the commission is to report to the plenary by the end of june 2016 on the action taken following the recommendations and requests made by the european parliament in its inquiry into the alleged transportation and unlawful detention of cia detainees in european countries and in its subsequent resolutions, and on the outcome of individual investigations and prosecutions carried out in the member states. it means he'll have to choose between good relations with the u.s. and the rule of law. but eu citizens who respect human rights and the right to justice expect the european institutions to defend these values against all states, regardless of their global importance. i hope that we will one day also call on the united states to sign all the amendments to the geneva conventions, to recognize the international criminal court, to eliminate the surviving segregation in american society, to provide adequate protection for workers, and to stop destabilizing countries that are located near our borders. then we will be a true sovereign and protector of european values and interests. that is why i voted for the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i got held up. i don't agree with the eu getting involved in the cia torture investigation. this may be a matter for those eu member states where such torture is alleged to have occurred.
in writing. i did not support the report on the grounds that it disproportionately interferes with military and intelligence relations between the united states and european countries that are members of nato. this is not the place for the european parliament, let alone to call into question the fight against terrorism. the commission is called upon to define the concept of 'national security' and the requirements for the conduct of criminal proceedings in the eu member states. it is also wholly inappropriate to call on member states to offer asylum to prisoners who have been officially exonerated and released from guantanamo. i see no reason why the release of guantanamo prisoners should have more rights in the eu than other asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ respect for fundamental human rights and the rule of law is not only the cornerstone of the eu, but also an indispensable element in the effective fight against terrorism. inhuman practices in investigation and abuse are in any case reprehensible. however i abstained on this resolution as i believe that this is up to each member states to investigate such matter. i also believe that the eu should focus on constructive dialogue with the us in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. i abstained on the vote because the text is too negatively charged against the operation of the cia. it creates a negative and hostile atmosphere unnecessarily.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is just another example of the anti-american hysteria that is sweeping the european parliament. the european parliament has no competence in matters of national security, no reason to vote on the us senate report, and that is why i did not support this ideologically motivated resolution.
in writing. the european union is not even capable of guarding its own land borders, so it's absurd for it to engage in star wars. the report calls for 'the institutionalisation of space', encouraging member states to implement joint programmes of a transnational space imaging system for surveillance. the report says that the eu must continue to strive for the highest possible degree of autonomy in space research and in the military. i warn against the creation of a european army and european surveillance facilities at the expense of nato.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on space capabilities for european security and defence. i am aware that the security situation in europe is becoming more complex and deteriorating and that there is a need to have a debate on how to ensure the safety of our citizens. i also agree that a comprehensive approach is needed to address crises, armed conflicts in neighbourhoods, the deterioration of living conditions, as well as climate change and poverty. however, i do not agree with some of the ideas in this report, which is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that the eu's civilian space programmes provide a range of capabilities and services with potential applications in many sectors, including the next stages of the development of copernicus and galileo. at the same time, it should be recognised that transparency and increased public awareness of the use of those programmes, which have a direct impact on users, such as galileo and copernicus, among european citizens, is crucial to the success of the eu space programmes. the existence of the galileo public regulated service (prs) is also noteworthy, limited to government-approved users and suitable for sensitive applications where high resilience and absolute reliability must be ensured. it is therefore important to further develop the capacity of the prs in the next generations in order to respond to changing threats.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution underlining that the european space programmes, galileo (navigation) and copernicus (observation of the earth), are crucial to member states’ security. with this text we urge the council, the vice president/high representative and the commission to ensure that european space programmes develop civilian space-based capabilities and services with relevance for european security and defence capabilities, particularly through the allocation of adequate funds for research, for example through the horizon 2020 framework programme. we need today a holistic, integrated and long-term approach to the space sector at eu level. the space sector should, consequently, be mentioned in the new eu global strategy on foreign and security policy.
in writing. i abstained on this report because it does not very happily mix up the security and military procedures of the european space projects galileo and copernicus. but we should focus on eu cooperation in terms of autonomy of access to space and the associated industrial potential. the galileo and copernicus programmes should remain primarily civil. in the area of the common security and defence policy (csdp), we must be careful not to create a parallel structure to nato.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on space market uptake calling for greater attention needed to be paid to the space dimension in the european union’s various sector-specific policies. with this in mind, the european commission is invited to carry out a ‘space check’ check’ on all existing and new policy initiatives ‘to assess whether any changes are necessary to stimulate the use of satellite data and services’ in regional and town-and-country planning policy.
in writing. ‒ venezuela is facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis and the venezuelan people desperately need our help. i voted in favour of this resolution because the government cannot keep violating human rights and leading its country to collapse without consequences. maduro must immediately accept the much needed humanitarian aid, and start taking the necessary steps towards real dialogue, namely by releasing political prisoners and allowing a recall referendum this year. i do feel, however, that this resolution could have put more pressure on maduro’s government to fully respect the venezuelan constitution and the rights of its citizens, for instance by including the possibility of targeted sanctions against those who continue to violate human rights in venezuela, should the government show no signs of entering real dialogue.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, the european parliament called on caracas to release all political prisoners, allow the activities of humanitarian organisations and respect constitutional mechanisms. europe must contribute to finding solutions to the serious economic, humanitarian and institutional crisis in venezuela. i agree that the human rights abuses and undemocratic interventions that are taking place in venezuela are completely unacceptable and that the eu should consider targeted sanctions against the maduro regime. that is why i voted for the resolution.
in writing. i could not support the european parliament resolution of 8 june 2016 on the situation in venezuela. i didn't think the joint proposal of the populists, socialists, conservatives and liberals was balanced. for example, the resolution ignored the initiative promoted by president maduro in support of unasur to promote dialogue between representatives of the government of the bolivarian republic of venezuela and the opposition, and supports unasur in the role it plays in promoting the well-being of citizens, peace, justice, truth, good relations between institutions, strengthening the economy, protection of the rule of law, democracy and respect for national sovereignty as priorities of this dialogue, with the first meeting taking place in the dominican republic in the presence of former prime ministers and presidents josé luis rodríguez zapatero (spain), leonel rodríguez fernández (dominican republic) and martín torrijosa (panama). i was also against the european parliament sending a delegation to engage in dialogue with all the groups affected by the conflict. i believe that the fate of latin america should be in the hands of its people and its people alone, and that it is up to the organizations of these countries to find ways to bring peace to their continent. and we know from history that latin america is very vulnerable to outside intervention, so caution is in order.
in writing. ‒ the introduction of socialism in venezuela by former president chavez and current president maduro has led to poverty, hyperinflation, ubiquitous queues and shortages of goods, power cuts. i feel sorry for the venezuelan people and wish them a speedy end to their socialist governments. but a european parliament resolution will do nothing to help this country. that is why, as usual, i shall abstain on resolutions which express concern about the various forms of suffering in the world.
in writing. venezuela is currently experiencing a significant violation of democratic principles and political persecution of the opposition. the suppression of civil protests has even claimed several lives. as a social democrat, i therefore naturally support the european parliament's call not only for the institutions of the union and the member states but also for the international community to take appropriate steps to open a dialogue and ensure public safety and security. i am glad that i can at least express my solidarity with the venezuelan people in this difficult time. the european commission and the council should then take all necessary measures to protect european interests and legal certainty for european companies operating in venezuela.
in writing. the resolution i voted for, which i support, is a clear indication of the deplorable situation in this country. the european parliament calls for a solution to the economic crisis and the political deadlock. nearly two decades of socialist rule by president chavez and his successor, maduro, have brought venezuela, a country rich in natural resources, to a state of chaos and defeat. in the last three years, the poverty rate has doubled from 30 percent to 60 percent. seventy-five percent of the most important medicines are unavailable in venezuela. by the end of this year, the imf predicts the average inflation rate will rise to 700 percent. high crime and almost total impunity, human rights violations. the executive, which uses state power to control the supreme court and the national electoral council and block the implementation of laws passed by the national assembly. other characteristics of present-day venezuela. the resolution calls on the venezuelan government to release all political prisoners. this includes approximately 2,000 people who are in prison, under house arrest or on probation for political reasons. among them is leopoldo lópez, a prominent opposition politician whose wife, lilian tintori, i met in person two years ago. her husband was already in prison. after our meeting, i initiated an urgent resolution on behalf of our political group, the epp, in support of lopez and other venezuelan citizens unjustly imprisoned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling on high representative of the eu for foreign affairs and security policy federica mogherini to set up an aid plan aimed at responding to the shortage of basic food. it also calls on the june european council to make a political statement on the situation in venezuela and to support the recent efforts at mediation. this resolution also urges the venezuelan government of nicolas maduro to respect the venezuelan constitution, including the legal procedures and mechanisms enabling the process to be activated of dismissing the president before the end of 2016. as the alde group we were also supporting targeted sanctions for those responsible of the situation in the country. today, venezuela is suffering the biggest recession and the strongest inflation in the world.
in writing. on 8 june 2016, we voted on the draft resolution on endocrine disruptors: the state of play following the judgment of the court of justice (cjeu) of 16 december 2015 at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg. at the last additional plenary session of the european parliament in brussels, i criticised the commission's flagrant disregard for the eusc decision in the commission v sweden case. the european parliament, together with the council, has unambiguously committed the commission in directive 528/2012 to adopt criteria for the assessment of endocrine disruptors by 13 december 2013. the commission has not done so until now, and it has not done so even after the eusr explicitly told it that it should. due to the absence of criteria for the evaluation of endocrine disruptors, the prohibition of endocrine disruptors laid down in directive 528/2012 cannot be active and therefore these substances continue to cause significant harm to the health of european citizens. i am therefore very pleased to have been able to support the joint resolution which criticises the commission's approach to the whole case and at the same time calls on it to act.
in writing. the resolution condemns the commission for not establishing scientific criteria for determining the assessment of endocrine disrupting substances. chemicals with potential adverse effects on human health must be properly assessed and their marketing authorisation must be based on a benefit-risk assessment.
in writing. ‒ finally, i supported the joint motion for a resolution on endocrine disruptors tabled by the epp, s&d, alde, gue/ngl, greens/nfa and efdd. the commission's inaction on the adoption of an implementing regulation laying down scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties has already gone on for too long since 13 december 2013. the commission also found that the commission had not provided any evidence that the union industry had been able to recover from the injury suffered by the union industry. the commission is now under a primary law obligation to take the action arising from the judgment of the general court, i.e. an obligation to adopt an implementing regulation setting out the criteria for a substance harmful to health within a reasonable period of time. this is a sensitive public health issue and union citizens have a right to know the factors for determining health hazards. i consider it my duty towards the citizens to call on the commission to publish a list of such criteria as soon as possible. in its previous communication to parliament, the commission promised to adopt the criteria before the beginning of summer 2016. the european parliament's call on the commission to start fulfilling its obligations immediately is therefore on the agenda. i hope very much that the commission will be able to adopt these criteria without delay.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution urging the commission to publish scientific criteria for identifying endocrine disruptors. indeed endocrine disruptors are chemicals which interfere with the hormonal system, potentially causing damage to health and the environment. under the regulations in force on the marketing of biocidal products (regulation 528/2012) and of plant health products (regulation 1107/2009), the commission ought to have specified scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine-disrupting properties of active substances and biocidal products no later than 13 december 2013. the commission has, however, postponed that deadline arguing the need for a socio-economic study to be conducted. at the end of 2015, the general court of the eu found that the commission had breached eu law. finally, this resolution condemns the commission not only for failing to deliver upon its obligation to adopt delegated acts under the terms of regulation 528/2012 but also for not complying with the court ruling (article 266 tfeu).
in writing. i abstained from voting because the report contained changes which were clearly contrary to the views of the expert public.
in writing. on 8 june 2016, at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, i voted in favour of my group colleague lynn boylan's objection to the authorisation of genetically modified maize. as you know, i have long protested against any authorisation of the cultivation of genetically modified crops on european soil. i personally believe that this is a dangerous gamble with our biodiversity and our health, because all the risks to both human health and the environment as a whole are still unpredictable. we already have a number of scientific studies that explicitly point out, for example, that the foetuses of animals fed genetically modified crops show numerous mutations, malformations and other damage to the immune system. there is a real risk that these animal health problems will then spread to humans through the consumption of milk or meat. the current gmo authorisation process is dysfunctional and does not provide adequate safeguards. i am of the opinion that until it is reformed in a very substantial way, all authorisation processes for such crops should be suspended. rather than allowing more and more gmos, the commission and the member states should take on their responsibilities for the health of the european population and rework the system.
in writing. ‒ i voted to object to the commission's decision. the commission should not authorise or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified maize, that decision should be left to the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion which objects to the authorisation of genetically-modified maize bt11 × mir162 × mir604 × ga21, and genetically-modified maizes combining two or three of the events bt11, mir162, mir604 and ga21) for which the company syngenta france sas had submitted an application for marketing in february 2009. this resolution called for a withdrawal of this decision citing as reason that the com exceeded its implementing powers provided for in the gm regulation 1829/2003 when it has to continuously take a decision after the member states delivered a non-opinion. i do not believe that systematically opposing gm authorisations on mainly procedural grounds is the right way of forcing the commission to change the eu level authorisation regime.
in writing. i voted against it. i do not agree with the eu-wide ban on the marketing of these crops, because there is no scientific evidence of any adverse effects on human health, animal health or the environment. the decision on this matter must remain with the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted to object to the commission's decision. the commission should not authorise or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified carnations, this decision should be left to the individual member states.
in writing. ‒ the gm flower dianthus caryophyllus is a carnation with modified colours for which suntory holdings ltd., osaka, japan submitted its application for authorisation in 2013. the com implementing decision authorises the placing on the market of gm carnation under the condition that the competent dutch authority holder gives its consent, monitors its compliance, and guarantees that it is used for ornamental use only (no cultivation). i voted against this resolution calling for a withdrawal of this decision because it exceeds the com’s implementing powers and does not sufficiently fulfil the objective of health and environment protection. the main concern of the objectors is that possible consequences of intentional or accidental intake of gm carnations by humans and animals have not been taken into consideration. according to the efsa gmo panel, the gm carnation does not show enhanced fitness characteristics except if exposed to the herbicide sulfonylureas.
in writing. - i voted against the document. if no scientific study confirms the dangers of genetic modification in this area, it is again up to the member states how they will approach this issue.
commissioner, normally there is no vote on a draft regulation at second reading in this parliament. in such a case, it shall be deemed to be automatically approved and a vote shall be taken only if a motion to reject is tabled. in this parliament, i am usually the one who makes such a motion for a dismissal. but this time, i'm not making any such suggestion, and i'll explain why. i have given my voters a commitment to vote against all proposals which restrict the freedom of the individual or the sovereignty of the member states, and i do not see that in this proposal, which i consider to be fundamentally beneficial. we'll actually have a uniform form of public documents, like a birth certificate, marriage certificate or divorce certificate. and if you travel to another member state, you won't have to provide an official translation, it saves you money and the authorities can check the authenticity. so nobody is forcing the member states to recognise the document, it is just making it easier to read. but it does make me think about the meaning of the european union in this context. i think this proposal is a perfect example of intergovernmental cooperation, governments can agree on it, accept it and we don't need the european union or this parliament for that.
mr president, commissioner, let me first of all thank the rapporteur for the juri committee, mrs madeleine delvaux, and all the other colleagues who have worked on this proposal for their perseverance and effort. the compromise reached shows the real options available to us at the moment. i am aware that the credibility of documents is a fundamental prerequisite for the functioning of any society, any judicial system, and it is certainly appropriate to give careful consideration to any action that in any way changes the established rules in this area. however, i believe that today citizens expect more from the european union than a very gradual and very limited harmonisation of rules, especially in this area. i regret that the member states were not willing to go as far as the commission had originally proposed in the mutual recognition of instruments, and i hope that in the future we will still be able to move from the phase of merely reducing complications to the phase of creating a genuine common area. only this shift will have a real impact on both business and ordinary citizens, giving them real proof of the existence of a united europe.
madam president, commissioner, minister, we all know that the european union has considerable shortcomings in the interconnection of information systems between individual member states and between the institutions of the european union itself. we could see for ourselves, after the attacks in paris and in march in brussels, that the information system and the exchange of information between the different states are not enough. and although the european union and the european commission, together with the member states, have tried to take a number of steps to improve the situation, in practice this information sharing still does not work. in particular, in relation to the monitoring of investigations into foreign fighters or illicit firearms trafficking or terrorist financing. these are, in my view, crucial data that we must not only be able to handle quickly and safely, but also to use effectively in the fight against terrorism. how can we continue to protect european citizens if we cannot secure the most basic thing, which is the exchange of information within the european union? i personally think that the european counter-terrorism centre has a crucial role to play in this matter, and i firmly believe that it will be established.
commissioner, i must say that your answer today was not enough for me. i expect the european commission to reject unequivocally the steps taken by the turkish government and president erdogan to restrict political pluralism and democracy. i say this as someone who was in favour of the eu-turkey deal. it is a crucial signal for me that this is an act against a specific group of kurdish party members of parliament, and also the clear reaction of the opposition republican people's party, which rejects this step by president erdogan. if turkey asks the european union for visa-free travel, it must not only meet the technical conditions, but also respect the rule of law and protect civil rights. if he does not meet these conditions, then the european union cannot continue to negotiate visa-free travel either. (the registrar has agreed to answer the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer the question by raising the blue card. in my opinion, mr putin is not an example to follow and mr erdogan is certainly not an example to follow in curtailing political and civil rights and curtailing democracy. that's my answer.
mr president, europe needs turkey and turkey needs europe. but both sides must respect the rules of the game. that's not happening. the approval of an amendment to the turkish constitution that would allow the removal of the immunity of the vast majority of opposition lawmakers is purposeful. it's a very serious step with far-reaching implications for the future. the conditions for granting visa-free travel to turkish citizens include the harmonisation of legislation on terrorism. he was also responsible for the repression of the democratically elected opposition. working and pragmatic turkish citizens know that europe is their most important export partner. the escalation of violence that the current government's actions are fueling, as we witnessed again yesterday in the center of istanbul, is discouraging investors and threatening their safety. he is a threat to turkey's economic interests.
mr. speaker, the turkish parliament has approved the government's proposed constitutional amendments which will lift the immunity of approximately a quarter of its members. we all know who this move is primarily aimed at - the opposition pro-kurdish people's democratic party. the question is whether we really want to have visa-free access to a country that is dismantling free speech, the foundations of the rule of law, and whose officials are trading with the islamic state and primarily taking up arms against the kurds, who are, in turn, fighting the islamic state relentlessly. this is a very dirty game, and if the european union plays it with erdogan, we will harm the kurds and help the islamic state. commissioner, you have heard from everyone here today that it is a mistake for the commission to remain silent on this matter. and i want to hear from you in closing what you're going to do about it. if you continue to treat this as you treat other things, i guarantee you that the turkish people will be worse off, thanks to you and your inability to intervene.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all, yes, we need modernised trade instruments as soon as possible, and not only because of the market economy status of china but also simply because there has not been any overhaul of the instruments for over 15 years. my call to the presidency is to deliver not as soon as you can, as you said, but as soon as possible. on substance, our group would call for a liberal approach favouring trade and promoting its further liberalisation. on the other hand, we need to be able to make use of a variety of suitable instruments which would provide the eu economies and their sensitive industries with relevant and efficient levels of protection against unfair practices. we need to be able to react when it is obvious that goods coming from a third country are not offered under regular market conditions, that prices are either dumped or artificially subsidised. while discussing the revising of our trade defence instruments, we should continue to follow wto provisions which are per se non-protectionist. we should therefore continue where appropriate with the application of measures such as the lesser duty rule. on the instruments themselves, there are potential areas we can cover without bypassing the wto framework and where we can truly help eu businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones. we should, for instance, try to shorten deadlines in anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations. we should further investigate possibilities of using alternative methods in calculations of trade defence measures while taking into account special conditions of the third country market or while evaluating the level of damage to domestic industry. we also should consider using anti-subsidy measures more in our trade policy and address other related issues such as access to raw materials and export duties. so i call on the presidency: please deliver.
author. – madam president, parliament has repeatedly called for the adoption of a regulation on the administrative procedure of the union, which would enable european citizens to better exercise their right to good administration. for the first time, in 2001, parliament called on the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation containing a code of good administrative behaviour. at that time we had no clear legal basis for an eu administrative procedure law but, with the lisbon treaty, article 298 was introduced as an appropriate legal base. in 2010, the committee on legal affairs (juri) set up a working group on eu administrative law. we concluded that eu administrative law was very fragmented and only a very few areas of the union’s administrative activities were subject to a systematic approach. that is why parliament, in january 2013, adopted the berlinguer report, in which it clearly requested the commission to submit a proposal for an administrative regulation applicable to the administration of the union’s institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. in the current parliamentary term we have again followed up, with a working group chaired by my esteemed colleague heidi hautala, which has done tremendous work that has now come to an end. as the commission has, unfortunately, still not come up with a concrete proposal for a regulation, or clearly stated that we are to expect such an initiative, the oral question and resolution we are talking about tonight shall serve as a gentle reminder from parliament to the commission. in order to help the commission to make up its mind, the main aim of the juri committee working group was to draft a model regulation, with the advice of law professors, containing a basic set of the rules we would like to see. we have annexed this regulation to the oral question and resolution presented tonight. the objective of such a proposal is to provide citizens and the union’s administration with a comprehensive and cross-cutting administrative procedure. especially in the current times, with euroscepticism on the rise, citizens would enormously benefit from uniform procedural guarantees enforceable in the eu courts. increased openness, transparency and accessibility of the eu administration will improve trust and the relationship between citizens and the union’s administration, and in that way we will also reinforce the legitimacy of the eu.
madam president, every five years the european institutions are asked why european citizens do not vote and why they are indifferent to the european project. it is true that the european parliament always tries to throw something at them at the last minute, such as the abolition of roaming, to encourage them to participate in the elections, but without much success. the simple truth is that for five years, citizens have been finding the administration often closed off, inefficient, with corporate lobbyists having more say than the interests of citizens and often the eu itself. if we are all really on the same side, then we must recognise that making european governance more effective is an absolute necessity now and not something to wait for. i call on the commission to take action as soon as possible. our citizens have been waiting for a long time, but after your speech, commissioner, i am not convinced that you know what the european parliament wants. i'd like to tell you that you're not the chosen one, but we can recall you.
madam president, i had originally intended to start a little differently, but the commissioner's statement has led me to ask what the objectives of our policy are in terms of economic diplomacy, because i think the commissioner has only partially mentioned this, and i join mrs grapini in asking that we hear from him in his next speech about the specific instruments that should be used and, of course, the objectives of economic diplomacy. in my view, given the strength it has in global markets, the european union should play a more active role in the international arena. the european union is a little undersized in the international arena in the political sense of the word. i think that this issue should be brought together here and the three objectives that my colleague, mr tajani, also mentioned should be linked to support for enterprises, because the best evidence of what the european union has achieved is a functioning enterprise that carries out its production on foreign markets. i think that's the best goal and our main point for developing our economic diplomacy. there we should see the light at the end of the tunnel.
madam president, economic diplomacy is essential to promote europe's economic interests in the world and to ensure that european products are sold in distant markets. the commission and the european parliament often say that they are thinking in particular of smes and not of large corporations. that's what they say about ttip. but what is the truth about european foreign trade? only 13% of smes export outside the eu. this is a very bad result of the support for smes in the economic diplomacy of the european union. we need to promote european interests and brands more strongly, collect and disseminate information on our market to facilitate international trade, support european businesses in accessing external markets, and especially think of smes, not corporations, which are constantly lobbying the commission. and let me say one thing to my colleague from the epp: we do not need ttip and ceta, we need order within the european union. then we can talk about anything else as long as we have a mess in the house, we can't clean up anywhere else and outside.
for the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, we see that our traditional industry, which employs many people, is facing problems, which is why i like the title of the report, it captures exactly what we are talking about. competitors are pushing us out of the world and now they're coming to europe. this needs to be reflected in particular in the context of the debate on the granting of market economy status to china. if our industry is to remain competitive, we need to improve the environment, make better use of the financial instruments at our disposal. we have the important shift2rail programme from horizon 2020 and i am pleased that there is a strong focus on smes in particular. finally, to stimulate demand in europe itself: thanks mainly to the trans-european networks and the cef programme, we have taken the first step, but of course our rail network needs further investment. if we look at the map, i think we should also pay more attention to the potential of high-speed rail for central and eastern europe.
madam president, first of all the competitiveness of the supply industry is about the competitiveness of the rail sector and better services for customers and passengers. i think that there are positive signs. we have progressed with the railway package. i have personally addressed the question of accessibility of the rolling stock. we have ertms, we have certain funds, but we need to further deploy ertms. we need to get away from the bottlenecks that exist. we need to dismantle barriers. we need to implement all that. the problem, of course, that we are facing is whether european industries have the means to fit in the competitive environment: i mean accessibility of smes to funding, the unfair competition elsewhere. the key issue for me, though, is not that ms bieńkowska is not present, it is the absence of industrial policy. we do have legislative and financial instruments – ertms, efsi, the fourth railway package and so on, but we need to link those. we need to link those to have an industrial policy strategy and implement it.
madam president, railways and their associated industries are an important sector of the european union's industry. perhaps no other transport sector in the world has the european union's prominence. the end of the 20th century saw a number of changes in the european railway supply industry, not always positive. a number of enterprises in the czech republic have been sold several times and some of them have even been closed. maintaining the eu's leading position in the world in this industry is an important task for the current european commission, the european parliament and national governments. the future depends on how companies in this sector cope with the demands of digitalisation, automation and interoperability. in the near future, we may not be able to do without the use of space technology and the widest possible standardization. the introduction of rtms is the right step in this direction. in particular, in recent years we have seen a rapid rise in infrastructure development, without which the railways would lose their competitiveness. stimulating demand for industrial products is a necessary part of the reindustrialisation project of the european union. the report, whose conclusions i warmly support, is recommended as a stimulus for further action by all those involved in rail transport. only then can we ensure that this sector of environmentally friendly transport has a place in the development plans of the whole community and create new quality jobs.
the resolution is an urgent appeal to the cambodian government to really change the current situation in cambodia, because as my speakers have said, the situation is really getting worse every month. the european union is one of the kingdom of cambodia's largest development aid partners and cannot tolerate the current situation in the country. it not only suppresses the opposition, but it also suppresses all activities of the non-profit sector. the european union must instead put sufficient pressure on the cambodian government to recognise the activities of non-profit organisations and to give civil society, trade unions and, above all, the opposition the opportunity to act legitimately. in particular, in the context of the presidential and municipal elections in the next two years, the fairness of elections and election campaigns is to be ensured. that is why i say on behalf of my group that we will be following the whole situation in cambodia very closely and we will want to play our part in making sure that the elections there are democratic.
madam president, prime minister hun sen has now been in power for 30 years. while these years have moved cambodia away from the nightmare of the killing fields, we can say that the road to full democracy is far from complete. we have seen some positive steps; steps that have led to the opening of different european missions in cambodia, including from the czech republic. but prime minister hun sen must understand that the greatest proof that cambodia is now a modern nation state would be to accept truly free and fair elections, to allow a fully independent press and free speech, and to ensure a government that works for all its citizens, including those who are not supporters of the current government. repression by the government and attacks against the opposition do not serve the strategic goals of cambodia or its people. there is a quote attributed to the late cambodian king during his exile in china which reads: ‘i renounce my throne to show the masses that there is no such thing as a divine right, that no-one descends from the heavens to rule the people’. i think this statement is just as true for all prime ministers and all presidents.
madam president, it is not very often that i agree with virtually all of my speakers, so i would not want to further confuse the debate. i condemn the human rights violations in cambodia. however, i believe that our conviction in cases of human rights violations should have a real impact on the implementation of the policies of the european union. and i have to agree with my predecessors that the tools of our diplomacy, which is to provide development aid, should also be used. i think we should respond to a state that consistently violates basic human rights. i do not think that the entire catalogue of human rights that we have in the european union is universally valid, but the basic human rights are indeed universal and universally valid. their violation in cambodia must be reflected in our contribution to that country, because otherwise we have no real tools to force that country to make a certain turn.
mr president, when the civil war in tajikistan ended in 1992, some 30 000 war orphans were left behind. i remember it well because i was making a documentary about them in dushanbe in the late 1990s. now all these children are grown-ups. i wish they lived in a country where they could breathe freely. but their country is in a bad way with freedom. pluralism, a free and open political environment are yet concepts foreign to this beautiful country. the politically motivated indictments and imprisonment of abubakr azizkhodjayev, zayd saidov, maksud ibragimov and others are evidence of this. the eu-republic of tajikistan partnership and cooperation agreement states that respect for democratic principles and human rights is an essential element of the agreement. the framework should therefore be used to the maximum extent possible to provide concrete support to those unjustly imprisoned and prosecuted.
mr. chairman, what are the basic features of the tajik state at this time? arrests and disappearances, widespread poverty, even torture, media under siege, rule by oligarchs, religious faiths that are not equal before the power of the state. these are all descriptions that show what the current face of tajikistan is like. i recognize that the european union has agreed with this country on a commitment of some strategic importance, but i ask whether the recognition of this commitment of the strategic importance of this country can completely negate basic human rights, whether we can renounce the protection of human rights because of the strategic importance of tajikistan. i think that's not the case and that we should send a clear message on this matter.
mr president, i believe in the principle of a certain moderation of european law, that is to say, that the principle of subsidiarity must be a necessary part of european law. however, in this case, i have indicated that it is a measure which is beneficial to european citizens. it simplifies the circulation of documents in terms of their form requirements. i think my speakers have mentioned a number of the advantages of this new amendment and i could support it. i'm a little sorry that the amendment wasn't perhaps more ambitious, that we didn't touch not only the form but also the content, which is an essential part of legalization. however, i think this is a task for the future and i firmly believe that the eu institutions will succeed in making life easier for citizens in this area as they did with the form.
in writing. the proposal concerns the facilitation of the mutual recognition of civil documents between eu countries. eu citizens moving to another eu country for work or family reasons should save time and money. i believe that free movement is one of the most important benefits of the eu as such. and facilitating the mobility of european citizens, including the administrative side, where they now have to verify documents such as birth or marriage certificates or extracts from criminal records, is certainly necessary, as it will facilitate and promote the free movement of persons. i was therefore happy to vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the rejection, thus supporting the draft regulation itself. normally, the european parliament does not vote on the second reading, the proposal is automatically deemed to have been approved. a vote is taken only if someone submits a motion to reject. that's usually my suggestion here. i have made a commitment to my constituents that i will oppose any proposal that restricts the freedom of the individual or the sovereignty of the member states. this time i did not table a motion to reject, but another group did, and i voted against the motion. i consider the proposal to be beneficial. it does not oblige member states to recognise public documents issued in another state, but only facilitates their reading. a uniform form of the birth, marriage or death certificates will facilitate their reading by the authorities in another member state which request them. it'll save the citizens the paperwork and the need to have everything checked out by the authorities. in my opinion, this positive proposal is the perfect case for normal intergovernmental cooperation. we would not need the eu and the dear european parliament for these positive things.
‒ this is important legislation aimed at ensuring the free movement of public documents within the union and thus promoting the free movement of union citizens. it is regrettable that, as a result of pressure from the council, the scope of the regulation was eventually limited to public documents certifying personal status (birth, death, marriage, divorce, parenting, adoption, etc.), whereas the ep wanted the regulation to cover diplomas and certificates of vocational training, certificates of invalidity, private documents relating to legal status and the representation of undertakings. the introduction of multilingual standard forms, which eliminate the need for translations without leading to an obligation to recognise the content of the forms, especially in the area of family law, is clearly beneficial.
in writing. one of the greatest achievements of european integration, the single internal market, is based on four principles. it is the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital. it is precisely for its optimal functioning that i have supported simplifying the requirements for the presentation of certain authentic instruments in other countries. although we have made considerable progress in the degree of integration since the adoption of the single european act of 1986 relevant to the internal market, the reality remains that the submission and approval of documents abroad is often a very demanding process. i therefore approve the application of the exemption exempting citizens from the need to legalise documents and to apply for an apostille in the case of public documents on personal status and certain other documents that are often required when exercising the right to mobility. although this process is outdated, it is still used and is time-consuming and logistically demanding for citizens. in addition, it involves unnecessary financial costs. the european parliament has proposed from the outset that the range of documents covered by this exception be broader. i do not understand the council's negative attitude. i therefore find the outcome of the negotiations limited and have supported it reluctantly, and only because even such a limited stance is better than being stuck in the ground and accepting the unnecessary bureaucratic burden that citizens are exposed to.
in writing. ‒ today, people who want to move from one eu country to another face unnecessary obstacles. one of these is the cross-border recognition of public documents on personal status, nationality or criminal records. i am therefore pleased that this regulation will finally make it easier to recognise them. however, i think that the list of such documents should be extended. for example, i see no reason why the disabled person's card should not be recognised in this way. i therefore supported the report, but i hope that the other instruments will soon be recognised across borders.
in writing. i supported the ep's report, which adopts the council's position at second reading on the proposal for a regulation simplifying the requirements for the submission of certain public documents in the eu. documents certifying, for example, birth, marriage, permanent residence or criminal integrity will no longer need to be legalised or apostilled before being presented to the authorities in another eu country. for most of the documents covered by the new regulation, translation will even be eliminated as uniform multilingual forms will be introduced. the european parliament originally proposed going further and extending the regulation to include educational documents. it is a pity that the member states were not willing to go that far, but the proposal is a great step forward and a good compromise. the new rules will make life much easier for millions of citizens living, studying and working in another eu country. the unpleasant additional administration, time delays and, in some cases, the financial burden of formalities such as apostilles or official translation will be eliminated. it is worth noting that the regulation respects the sovereignty of the member states and does not require them to recognise the content of the documents submitted it is only a matter of making life easier for the citizens who submit the documents. any verification of documents by member states will be carried out electronically between the authorities, so that this burden is not passed on to the citizen. i think that approach is the right one and that is why i supported the text.
in writing. i was very pleased to support the regulation on the facilitation of the mutual recognition of official documents in plenary. more than 14 million people in the eu live, study or work outside their home country. these citizens are exposed to unnecessary administrative burdens in various life situations in the form of obtaining court translations, notarial and other time-consuming and costly forms of authentication and obtaining translations of personal documents. the purpose of the adopted regulation is to simplify the recognition of certain public documents in the eu. the regulation covers documents relating to personal status as well as certain other documents frequently requested by citizens relating to residence, nationality or criminal records. the regulation provides for exemptions from legalisation and apostille, and simplified measures for certified copies and certified translations. the institutions will be able to request the authenticity of the document from the issuing authority themselves, if necessary. the regulation also includes multilingual forms, which are completed by the official in the citizen's home country and attached to the document. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to cover a wider range of documents, such as diplomas or disability certificates, but i regard this compromise between the ep and the member states as a success. the text also contains a revision clause which allows for the future expansion of the range of documents covered.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on promoting the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for presenting certain public documents in the european union. the aim of this legislation is to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. it does not affect recognition of the content of public documents, particularly out of a concern to preserve the sovereignty of the member states with regard to family law.
in writing. ‒ i support this report as a step in the right direction towards the free movement of citizens by simplifying the formal adoption of certain public documents in the european union. some 12 million eu citizens study, work or live in a member state of which they are not nationals. although union citizens exercise their right to free movement, they often encounter administrative complications. this measure largely removes these complications. i personally welcome the creation of multilingual standard forms for most of the official documents concerned.
madam president, the questions raised by my introduction, mrs macovei, are certainly relevant. however, on this matter, i personally considered very much whether to support the draft report, and in the end i voted in favour. i did not support the report in the earlier vote, and i do not consider the reform as such to have been successful. however, in this particular question, once it has been adopted and approved by parliament, there is no other option than to support it in principle, because parts of the agenda of the civil service tribunal are being transferred to the general court, which means that a greater share of responsibility, a greater share of work, will fall on the increased number of judges. in this respect, it is a pragmatic vote, and i think many of my colleagues and i have supported this approach for this reason, even though i do not agree with the reform as a whole. however, the gender balance in the court of justice and the tribunal is not a problem for me.
in writing. in the vote on the transfer of the case law of the civil service tribunal to the general court of the eu, i voted in favour of the motion. at present, the length of proceedings before the general court is disproportionately long. that is why, for the past few years, people have been looking for ways to speed up driving. the simplest solution is to increase the number of judges on the tribunal. however, for political reasons it was impossible to increase the number of judges by one judge from certain states only, so that some states would have more representation at the court than others. the court of justice has therefore decided to double the number of judges to 56, so that each member state is represented by two judges at the general court. however, since this would result in an increase in the number of judges greater than that required, the civil service tribunal, which currently has seven judges, would also be abolished. the number of judges is thus fixed at the necessary level, while the agenda of the civil service tribunal is taken over by the general court. the reform of the judiciary is already underway, but it was necessary for the european parliament to give its consent to the transfer of jurisdiction from the civil service tribunal to the general court. in parallel with this proposal, the european parliament also pushed for gender balance in the court of first instance. i agree with the motion because speeding up the court's decision is necessary to protect the rights of eu citizens. i also agree with the requirement of gender balance in the judiciary.
in writing. - i got held up. in my view, it is quite immaterial which institution will deal with labour disputes between the eu institutions and their staff. that's why i'm late.
in writing. in today's vote, i did not support this next part of the reform of the court of justice of the eu, which is the abolition of the civil service tribunal, because i believe, in particular, that the previous stage of the overall reform of doubling the number of judges at the court of justice of the eu was not due to the factual need for such a large increase in the number of judges, but to the unwillingness of the member states to agree on the selection (method of selection) of the 12 judges originally proposed to increase the existing number. the abolition of the civil service tribunal is therefore only the consequence of this increase in the number of judges, which was conditional on the abolition of that specialised court. as regards the abolition of the civil service tribunal itself, the question arises in particular whether the current legislation allows the abolition of this special court set up within the court of justice of the eu. the question of gender balance is, in my view, then merely a political statement which is not binding and has no bearing on the very essence of the reform which is intended to ensure the effective functioning of the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the transfer to the general court of the european union of jurisdiction at first instance in disputes between the european union and its servants. this text is the ‘formal’ second step of the ecj reform already decided upon some time ago. the reform foresees the establishment of 28 additional posts for judges whereby, in a first step to create a certain number of posts in 2015, in a second step to merge the civil service tribunal into the general court (current proposal) and thirdly, to establish more additional posts in 2019. previously i was not in favour of doubling the number of judges just because the member states could not agree who would not have one additional judge, notably as the court only asked initially for 12 additional judges. unfortunately this position has not been supported by parliament.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is a kind of administrative code for citizens' dealings with the union institutions. the purpose of this regulation is to lay down a set of procedural rules which the union should observe in the conduct of its administrative activities. i don't think a new order like this is going to help anything, but it's not going to hurt either. that's why i'm late.
in writing. i supported the commission's initiative to present a proposal for a regulation harmonising the official procedures of the union institutions, with the exception of judicial and legislative procedures. clear and clearly defined rules of administrative procedure would provide greater legal certainty for individuals who come into contact with the eu institutions, in particular where these institutions decide on their rights and obligations. specific examples of harmonised legislation could be the right of access to the file, the right to effective legal protection, the obligation for institutions to take decisions within a reasonable time and the obligation to state reasons for administrative acts.
in writing. the administrative and legislative procedures of the european union are difficult for the public to read. citizens do not understand the rights that european institutions and agencies guarantee them, and this is partly why the current wave of euroscepticism is taking place. that is why i supported the resolution on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union. i believe that such legislation, although not entirely supported by the european commission, can help to reduce the distance that citizens feel towards the institutions of the european union. it is in the public interest that european administration should function efficiently and that there should be no unnecessary production and no lack of rules. both of these can be very dangerous. more specifically, this proposal is designed to ensure that any decision to initiate a new administrative procedure is accompanied by the provision of sufficient information to the relevant parties. it also includes emphasising the need to adopt administrative decisions within a reasonable timeframe and to avoid unnecessary delays. what i also find very positive is the provision on the right of citizens to be sure that they can turn to the institutions and receive an answer to their questions in their own language at the optimum time. the institutions, agencies and offices of the european union are there for their citizens, who should be made aware that there is no other way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the commission to present a draft regulation for an open, efficient and independent administration for the european union. over the years, the eu has introduced a large number of sector-specific administrative procedures in the form of binding and non-binding measures without necessarily taking account of the overall coherence of the system. there are gaps and inconsistencies in these procedures, due to their complex diversity, and a set of common administrative-procedure rules now urgently needs to be established at the level of eu institutions, bodies and organs in order to boost legal security, close gaps in the eu legal system and contribute to respect for the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i support the report presented and am convinced that this regulation will contribute to a more open and efficient administration of the european union. as the european union's powers have gradually expanded, citizens have increasingly come into contact with the union's institutions, bodies and agencies. in my view, citizens have a right to expect a high level of transparency, efficiency and speed of action from the union's institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the duly structured and uniform administrative procedures guaranteed by this regulation promote both effective administration and the proper enforcement of the right to good administration guaranteed as a general principle of union law and under article 41 of the charter. this regulation is therefore the right step towards greater efficiency and transparency of the institutions of the european union.
in writing. i disagree with the call for the commission to invest money in the rail sector: the european parliament asks the commission to make full use of the various eu funding instruments, to explore and use additional sources of funding for the s2r joint undertaking and to seek synergies between the different eu funds. in my view, the commission should not interfere in railway business and the czech experience with private carriers shows that a free market without subsidies is perfectly applicable to railways.
in writing. in the context of the report approved, i consider it important to implement rapidly the technical pillar of the fourth railway package, which is crucial for the creation of a genuine single market for rail products. it can be noted that greater interoperability and a strengthened role for the european railway agency (era) will facilitate the harmonisation of the network and thus reduce the costs of developing and approving rolling stock. the importance of the political pillar of the fourth railway package, which should ensure a fair competitive environment for carriers and suppliers in general, should also be stressed.
in writing. ‒ i supported the modernisation of the european rail supply industry which is integral to increasing the technological standards of the european union. this is most important as the railway sector accounts for 1 million direct and 1.2 million indirect jobs in the eu. likewise, this is another step towards achieving the commission’s 20% industrialisation target. with the passing of this resolution, we can continue these strides towards a competitive europe whose standards of modernisation match our role in the global market.
in writing. ‒ the european railway supply industry has long faced unfair competition from third country suppliers. this lack of a level playing field is threatening jobs in the railway sector in europe. that's why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the commission to unveil a coherent strategy as soon as possible on an industrial policy to re-industrialise the european continent. in this resolution we are asking that the eu re-industrialisation strategy should be based on sustainability and energy and resource efficiency and be organised by sector, incorporating strong, vertical industrial production measures within the eu. the rail sector deserves special attention and we call on the commission to set up a structure to facilitate exchanges between established companies and start-ups in the sector. finally this text points the finger at unfair practices from international competitors, particularly china.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would point out to the commissioner that more and more citizens are interested in international agreements: from trade to judicial cooperation agreements, to political declarations, and to the negotiations themselves. in my 12 years of working on international trade, i have never seen such active interest. we, the european parliament, represent the people of europe, and if we want to serve our citizens well we must be fully informed. commissioner, the treaties are very clear in this regard. the european parliament shall be immediately and fully informed at all stages of international agreements. there are no conditional clauses in that sentence. as the guardian of the treaties, the commission must fulfil this requirement. moreover, the framework agreement sets out clearly how this is to be done: parliament must be informed by the commission at the same time as the council, before a mandate is given, during the negotiation and once an agreement is initialled or signed. again, the wording in the framework agreement on this point is unconditional. it is a requirement. yet, to this day, we seem to be treated as a second-class institution vis-à-vis the council. commissioner, parliament must be treated on an equal footing with the council. there can be no transparency if we learn of items only after the council has voiced its opinions. the commission’s agenda must not be set in accordance with the council’s agenda alone. all that said, commissioner, my group also understands that this must be a two-way street: with greater transparency comes greater responsibility. leaks, lies and mis-information can destroy the work of years in a single day. the european parliament has rights but also obligations – and that too is clear in the framework agreement. we, as a parliament, must respect the rules of secrecy of documents in order to preserve our mutual trust with the commission, and respect their decisions on the level of secrecy attached to negotiation documents. my group knows that rights come with responsibilities: responsible transparency means respecting the rules of the game. in particular, i would like to congratulate commissioner malmström on the excellent job she has done so far to push for, and lead, this transparency initiative in the area of trade. the reason i mention the transparency initiative in the trade sector is because i believe that this model could serve as an inspiration in other domains in which the eu negotiates with third countries. let me give you another example: the recent deal that the commission concluded with turkey on the migration crisis. we all knew that it happened, when it happened and what the key points of it were. but the information was not complete: we were left with a lot of question marks, with information coming instead from the media. so i hope you will treat us as an equal partner in the coming years. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think your question is not connected to what we are actually discussing here. my point here is to ask the commission to treat this house, the european parliament – which represents the people of europe – to treat us on an equal footing, because i want to serve my citizens and in order to do so i need full information, but at the same time as the council.
the question posed by the blue card. thank you for accepting my question. i'm going to ask you a simple question. if you care so much about information and if you fight so hard against propaganda, could you tell us how it was with the loan of 10 million euros for your party, the national front party, because we should also be sure if you speak for your citizens of france or you act in the pay of russia?
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i'm going to come back to the subject. my colleague from the epp, mariya gabriel, initiated a question to the commission in june last year on the negotiation of the abolition of the visa requirement for short stays for third countries. and i would like to first of all thank maria gabriel for this question, because i fully support her and i consider it very important. in 2014, 19 of the third countries requested to be added to the list of countries which are exempt from the visa requirement vis-à-vis the european union. and that number could rise in the future. the european commission, which is responsible for negotiating these agreements, is not the only one to monitor and ultimately approve the process. it is also the parliament which, under the treaty of lisbon, has the power to approve international agreements. and there are several reasons. the main one is the importance of these bilateral agreements and their benefits in strengthening the international market and facilitating investment for both partners. however, throughout the process of approving international agreements, we are constantly confronted with two procedural problems. the first is that we, the members of the european parliament, lack information about the content, the course and the timetable of these meetings. this is the position of the european commission, which, however, does not sufficiently inform the european parliament. the european parliament has a right to obtain information when it requests it. at the same time, however, all other institutions, including the european commission, have an obligation to forward any information on their own initiative. that is, after all, why mr avramopoulos committed himself to this in the public hearings. unfortunately, after almost two years, i have to say that mutual information is not working. i consider it essential that the european commission establishes a mechanism to ensure regular communication of information on negotiations under way or planned. we often lack even basic information such as the country indication, the type of agreement, the procedure or the relevant documents. without such data, there is no doubt that the european parliament is not able to strengthen its role in the conclusion of international agreements. the second problem, commissioner, which i would like to mention here, is the case of european union agreements on readmission. there is still no system in place for the european commission to inform the libe committee, of which i am a member, of these agreements in a timely and appropriate manner. even though this exchange should take place at least twice a year. in my view, as in the opinion of my colleagues, the european commission must remedy these shortcomings as soon as possible. mr commissioner, it is only through systematic and more consistent cooperation between the commission and parliament, to which you committed yourself in your opening speech, that the benefits of international agreements can be realised. this is not only through increased cooperation with third countries, but also through benefits for the members and citizens of the european union.
mr. chairman, first of all, i would like to acknowledge your remark that there are not 25, but only 19. i think this is a rather important subject, but unfortunately it did not attract the attention of some of the political groups in this parliament on thursday afternoon, which i consider to be rather unfortunate. moreover, as i can see very well, even mr schaffhauser did not wait for the commissioner's reply after his fiery speech, which i do not consider to be either respectful or sufficiently respectful of the commission's position. but on the subject itself. i fully agree with my colleagues that the treaty of lisbon clearly establishes parliament's position in the negotiation of international agreements. i do not think there is any condition for the european commission to fulfil its own-initiative obligation, as many colleagues have said here, and i will not repeat it. on the other hand, i must admit that in the course of negotiating certain international agreements it is not possible to provide all the data in full, as mr assis has said here, and i agree with his statement. i had the opportunity to speak to an american diplomat and he smiled very much when he told me his opinion on the mandate of the commission - there is nothing better, he said, than knowing exactly where the other side can go. i am therefore somewhat reserved about informing the public of the progress of the negotiations, and i would not want to offend the commission too much here. but what is certainly unacceptable is the lack of information about the outcome of the negotiations. there should be absolute clarity, full transparency. and i think that the commission should also do something about this, accepting the wording of the court of justice's judgments which say: 'you must act on your own initiative, you cannot wait for parliament's requests'. and in this connection, i would like to conclude by asking the commission how it intends to respond to these criticisms by the court of justice. what instruments does it intend to use to play an active role when these agreements are concluded? i would stress that i do not insist on parliament being kept fully informed during the negotiations.
commissioner, i thank you for your openness to improving cooperation between the european commission and the european parliament. we have heard repeatedly today the demand that the european parliament be fully and immediately informed of the agreements negotiated, as the treaty on the functioning of the european union actually provides, and that this information be provided by the european commission on its own initiative, not on request. i would agree with the reasoning for this request as presented here today by my colleague mr pospíšil, who has fully understood the situation. the main reason is that the european parliament has a great deal of responsibility, we vote on some treaties and we have consultative powers on others. and the citizens who directly elect us see us as having this responsibility and as having to fulfill it. and if we do not want to disappoint them, if we want citizens to respect the decisions of the european union as a whole, then this decision-making must be transparent. i would like to say to you, commissioner, that this is not only our request, but you can also see that the european parliament is taking on a greater responsibility, and that should be encouraging for you.
madam president, since i have been shadowing the directive on combating terrorism and have gathered more and more information, i am afraid a terrorist threat is even more worrying than i thought before. also the recent terrorist attacks showed how easy it can be to conduct them, and to become radicalised is even easier, regardless of the nature of the radicalism, and there are numerous types of terrorism and radicalisation. especially, religiously-inspired terrorists have continued to demonstrate their intent and capacity to conduct violent acts. the terrorist threats from those groups is increasingly acute. there were around 5 000 europeans fighting alongside isis and 30% of them have returned to their countries of departure after having gained combat experience. this poses a risk in the sense that they may have the intention to carry out terrorist attacks, but also because of the possibility that they will initiate or engage in recruitment cells. we need to be prepared for this, and in order to adopt efficient measures we must be aware of the magnitude of the problem. to prevent radicalisation leading to violent extremism is an enormous task, particularly when it comes to effective action. the commission made a step in the right direction and ... (president cut off the speaker)
madam president, radicalization, like terrorism or extremism, knows no borders. and all three of these phenomena are a great and unpredictable threat to us. the european union has an important role to play in combating them, and i am not afraid to say that it is irreplaceable. it's more important than ever. its task and that of its agencies must be to link the different member states, information and files. unfortunately, in the past, as we saw with the attacks in paris and brussels, it just didn't work. and not just within the european union itself, but also in cooperation with third countries. let's connect and work with countries in africa, let's work with turkey, let's work with other countries to fight radicalisation, extremism and violence. the fight against radicalization itself is not that simple. in my view, it is mainly due to failed integration and long-term frustration and the loss or total absence of european values. it is therefore of the utmost importance to address these causes and thus prevent further spread of radicalism. we must focus on young people in particular, as my predecessors from the european people's party have already said: we have a plan and the european people's party wants to implement its strategy, which it adopted recently at its meetings. if the european union fails to do so, we will see the same events as in recent months and we will never be able to control radicalisation and the related terrorism or extremism. that's why i'm asking for your cooperation. that's the alpha and omega of all success with radicalization.
madam president, radicalism and violence are nothing new, but what is new is the frequency and brutality of them, and also the fact that they are committed by people who have grown up in the countries of the european union and have been brought up in the european union, where we are based on human values. the reason, as mentioned here, is the frustration of young people who have no perspective and are subject to propaganda, fanatical ideologies. and the solution, the commissioner rightly suggested, is to strengthen society, of course, we have to have the tools, whatever it is that has been mentioned here: internal security fund, prison work and so on. tools at both eu and member state level. but i believe the key is in the solution, in the strengthening of personal and social education. the key is to build the confidence of young people, who need to have perspective and positive values. i am also glad that the commissioner for these values has an understanding and an understanding for their support.
madam president, i am afraid we still have an ambivalent attitude towards iran. there are many members of my inta committee who are concerned with the human rights situation in different countries and are willing to support all kinds of sanctions or economic measures against countries that violate human rights, but i feel that this is not the case with iran and that unfortunately we still underestimate the essence of this theocratic dictatorial regime. there's a shift in society that's not yet reflected in those ruling circles. it's a theocratic dictatorship, it's part of an anti-western coalition along with russia, assad and the hezbollah movement, for example in syria. it's a state that seeks regional hegemony, which would certainly be disadvantageous to europe if something like that happened, and it's a state that has never given up its nuclear ambitions. so i would recommend that we be very vigilant about iran, both economically and commercially.
madam president, today the commissioner has given us an answer to the question, which i would say was twofold. commissioner, you have given us an answer on the efforts that you personally, the commission, your colleagues and also member states’ representatives are making vis-à-vis iran. i think that it was rich in information. i am sure that you are making an effort. i think that we have a double agenda there. we have got an economic agenda and we still have an agenda that has to do with the quality of ‘democracy’ in iran, human rights abuse, etc. on that part i must say that i found your response satisfactory. to be absolutely frank with you, i do have difficulties with the second part of the twofold answer, namely with the us part. you also took somewhat less time in answering that question. you said that there is progress on getting clarity on the guidelines and that there is an effort on the us side. i am sure that this is the case, but the fact is that we do have cases which have concrete implications. i am czech. i do not come from a country where airbus would have a production line, but i think that is one really flagrant case, airbus versus boeing. boeing, which clearly started negotiations with iran much later than airbus, has signed a deal – i think it was last week – while airbus has now been waiting for five months for us treasury clearance. i think that is unacceptable. so we do not just need to hear what efforts are taking place, but we really need results. tell us how we can assist you, but let us be more concrete on those issues in the future.
madam president, let me first of all thank mr cavad for the work he has done on both proposals. the proposed cooperation, the enhanced cooperation, seems to me to be useful. for example, according to the commission, in 2007, of the 2.4 million new marriages entered into in the european union, a full 13% had an international element. it is therefore appropriate to provide clear cross-border rights for those citizens. the commission also believes that this simplification could save up to eur 1.1 billion per year, which is currently spent on parallel litigation in different member states. i also believe that the member states' concerns about the integrity of their national rules in the field in question have been addressed, and in two respects. first, the purpose of the document is not to harmonise the substantive law of the member states relating to the property relations of international couples. the bills don't say that a registered partnership is the same as a marriage. the proposal is intended only to provide uniform rules for the administration of the property of international couples or for the division of such property. the proposal is therefore in line with the principle of subsidiarity. secondly, the amendment includes a public policy clause for security reasons. in any event, it allows a participating state not to apply the proposed adjustment if a specific public policy reason arises on its part, such as a difference in the concept of registered partnership. i regard free movement within the european union as the greatest positive of the union itself, but we must not only avoid making it more difficult to deepen this movement through intergovernmental cooperation, but also create a genuine common area with common rules, such as those we are discussing.
for the ppe group. madam president, i would like to begin by sincerely thanking my colleague, mr krasnodebski, for having drawn up this report systematically and with a great understanding of the value of education. the report therefore emphasises that education and training are values in themselves and should not be oriented solely towards meeting the needs of the labour market. the report respects subsidiarity. the competences we have at eu level are relatively limited, but more and more is expected from education. from combating radicalization to economic growth and poverty reduction. it is because we know that setting educational goals and tools determines how well prepared and successful our children will be in the future and whether we will be able to ensure their satisfaction and economic growth in the eu. the european parliament therefore endorses the european commission's proposal, which has narrowed the framework from 13 to six priorities, which member states will choose from according to their different situations. firstly, the relevance and quality of skills; secondly, inclusive education; and thirdly, innovative education, strong support for teachers, recognition of non-formal learning outcomes and learning effectiveness. i think it is important that the report stresses the need to support teachers, adding that at eu level the erasmus programme should be the instrument. the report also highlights the role of pre-primary and primary education for lifelong learning, the focus on accessibility and quality, as well as the quality of vocational education and the expansion of language learning programmes. in the context of the evaluation, the report shall draw attention to the risk of testing. the report also gives a realistic assessment of the bologna process and calls for its implementation. in the context of the increase in radicalisation, the european parliament calls for an examination of how education systems are incorporating ethics and personal and social education into their curricula as a tool that has proven itself in many schools. i deliver as a prevention for good human relations and as a bullying and violence prevention measure. this report is worth reading, but above all it is worth going back to it and following its recommendations.
the question posed by the blue card. - madam member, i have just one short, concise question for you. can you tell us about this plenary session, what the so-called brussels dictates to us in the field of education, as you mentioned in your speech? i'd like to broaden my horizons.
madam president, i want to be positive in my speech. i personally see education as important for every citizen of the european union to acquire knowledge and skills. this gives it access to the labour market and makes it competitive. but education has a purpose beyond the mere acquisition of knowledge and skills. it's about developing people's responsibility, their impartiality, their critical thinking, their curiosity, but also their empathy. and these are the skills of what's called emotional intelligence. cooperation between member states and between individual educational institutions gives young people the opportunity to broaden their horizons and gain unique experiences abroad. we must say openly here that the erasmus and erasmus+ programmes are great achievements of european integration. ladies and gentlemen, european education systems have a number of shortcomings, and we have to admit that. and it is within the strategic framework of european cooperation in education and training that we must try to address these errors. these are mainly problems caused by increased mobility and the current refugee crisis. these two phenomena often change the structure of national education systems, which, however, also lack flexibility. how do we respond to the refugee crisis in our education programs? if you agree with me that it's not, we have to change it. so i think education is the key to integration, in addition to its main function. the integration that the european union so urgently needs to reduce cultural differences, to combat segregation, radicalisation, extremism and, finally, terrorism.
madam president, today i will be speaking about the british referendum, so i will speak in english. tomorrow, the united kingdom is going to decide about itself, not about the european union. but if somebody leaves a community, it has some impact. that impact will of course be economic, but also political. together, we are bigger, stronger and more stable. i agree that that the european union has to be more effective and more flexible. the four british suggestions for reforming the eu agreed on by the european council represent steps in the right direction. so if the united kingdom remains inside our union, i look forward to cooperation on shaping a better europe. before 1989, in my country, people were suffering and dreaming to be free and to be part of free society under the european union. let us recall that we have a new example of sacrifice. today, jo cox, the victim of the hate campaign of brexit, would have had her 42nd birthday. so, along with our respected czech theologian professor tomáš halík, let me call on citizens of britain to ‘opt boldly to reject the temptation to betray europe, our common homeland’.
madam speaker, i believe the british people will decide tomorrow in accordance with their best knowledge and conscience, but i must say that i am disappointed with the way the campaign has been run in the uk. there were lies, manipulation, and unfortunately, violence. but what struck me most was nigel farage's statement that eastern european workers were less able to learn english, to understand common law and to feel a sense of belonging to britain. the people of central and eastern europe are not some uncivilized indigenous tribe. these are people who build houses, look after children, work in industry and services in the uk. migration from these countries is helping britain economically, and only a fool would deny it. their kids dream of playing football like rooney or singing like adele. dear mr. faragi, please stop insulting those who have paid taxes to the british system for years and done an honest job.
madam president, i have recently received some angry reactions from road hauliers in the czech republic to the measures introduced by some member states, such as germany and france, and considered by other countries, under the pretext of establishing equal rules for road haulage. the establishment of uniform rules must not lead to the fragmentation of the internal market into 28 different national arrangements, accompanied by a totally disproportionate administrative burden, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. i therefore take this opportunity to address their concerns and at the same time call on the commission to respond by clarifying the rules for the operation of international road transport and to prevent the continued fragmentation of the internal market.
for the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank my colleague mr pieper for his excellent cooperation on the revision, or the report on the revision of the energy efficiency directive. the current directive is a good basis for achieving our energy and climate goals, including those ambitious commitments from paris. but this can only be achieved if some of its shortcomings are removed, in my view particularly the excessive flexibility. the result of the current situation is that we are falling behind the targets set and, if nothing changes, we will not be able to achieve 20% energy efficiency by 2020. i think that the members in the itre committee have made it clear that a more effective framework is needed. i would like to mention at least a few points which i consider important in this report. firstly, it is a question of a binding 40% energy efficiency target. i believe that parliament should repeatedly and clearly support this commitment, because if we do not, we will be closing the way to greater savings, to fostering innovation and also to strengthening our dependence on fossil fuel imports. secondly, i would like to mention the issue of energy poverty, which was virtually omitted from the original proposal. i am glad that the report now gives a lot of attention to energy poverty. the report calls not only on the commission but also on the member states, since both the commission and the member states have been very distant on this issue so far. finally, i would like to mention the important issue of conflicting legislation. the parliament is currently discussing the revision of the emissions trading system (ets), which is interlinked with energy efficiency and other legislation and where there is currently significant overlap. instead of competition, there must be some synergy between these regulations, because they all have one common goal. in this respect, i consider it absolutely essential that there be an analysis of the mutual effects and that the commission come up with a proposal that effectively addresses this situation. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i have spoken about this and i think commissioner cañete has also mentioned it, investments under the european investment fund must be part of our fight against climate change. and it is this 40% binding target that should help to increase the use of renewable resources. i don't know what this has to do with the fires in cyprus.
mr president, i think that the political message of the report is clear. we have targets that ought to be achieved as concerns efficiency and renewables. but who will make it happen? industry and investors. so i am quite happy that both reports focus on the question of administrative procedures, cutting red tape, and of course having regulatory stability. we need clear rules, we need stability and, in this respect, i would like to emphasise something that maybe has not been emphasised that much so far. where renewables are concerned, i think i would also refer to the energy market design. i think that what is absolutely clear today is that we need to integrate renewables. on subsidies, i am not a great fan of subsidies as such and i think that where subsidies for energy are concerned that applies twice over. i do understand that in order to give renewables a start, subsidies were necessary. but at the moment i think we should be phasing them out, and definitely with regard to mature technologies. my last remark would apply to efsi. i think that some of our colleagues have already mentioned this, but if i look at the implementation of efsi today, the one thing that i am really missing is meeting the goal of financing especially innovative projects, and that of course applies to energy as well. so i think we should have a higher share of eib-backed investment with high risk.
in writing. the energy efficiency directive is built on an interesting theory. on the one hand, it assumes that, regardless of the costs involved and the local climate, it is worthwhile for everyone across the eu to implement the maximum possible energy efficiency measures in all circumstances. unknown why the whole report is based on the thesis that the free market is the best solution to all problems. in several places, this claim is 'tendered' by social considerations. a significant part of the proposal deals with improving reporting and promoting technical progress. however, at some points there are very few realistic claims for a near future of virtually zero energy demand for all buildings. a very weak point in the text is the assumption that co2 emissions can be eliminated even for a substantial part of industrial production. which, while theoretically possible, is practically impossible with today's best technology. despite these reservations, the report contains a number of interesting suggestions which can make a significant contribution to energy savings. this combination of unrealistic goals in the relatively short term, market fundamentalism and social elements, together with unrealistic expectations of rapid technical progress, is the reason why i cannot unequivocally support or reject the proposals submitted under consideration.
in 2014, the eu spent €358 billion on energy imports. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the actual level of the debt, but that the debt is not included in the calculation of the debt. we are aware that european retail electricity prices for small and medium-sized industrial and commercial customers and private consumers are high in many member states. we also know that high energy prices in the eu create energy price differences between member states and our main competitors in many parts of the world, which is a significant competitive disadvantage. there is no doubt that improving energy efficiency and energy saving are important factors for protecting the environment and the climate, enhancing economic competitiveness, creating jobs and ensuring the security of energy supply. yet little has changed since 2011, when i was the shadow rapporteur for the energy efficiency directive. for example, i have personally advocated the provision in article 7 that member states may request that a certain part of energy efficiency measures be implemented as a priority in households affected by energy poverty or in the area of social housing. unfortunately, only two member states out of 28 have so far made use of this option. more needs to be done.
in writing. the transport sector contributes significantly to high energy and fuel consumption. in fact, it is the only sector in the european union where greenhouse gas emissions have increased since 1990. however, the measures taken must be sustainable in the long term and should not create other undesirable effects for example, the negative impact of the promotion of biofuels on food production is notorious. much more attention needs to be paid to overall coordination and planning of logistics and their actual sustainability. i therefore supported this report, which calls for a more comprehensive approach to improving the energy efficiency of the entire transport system.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the decision of the european parliament to set up a committee of inquiry to establish the truth about the suspicion that the commission and the member states have not implemented the necessary legislation on tax evasion and money laundering. parliament is reacting actively to the panama papers. parliament voted today on the composition of this committee, which was the subject of a general consensus.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of 65 members who will make up the committee of inquiry into the panama papers scandal, which revealed the scope of assets hidden overseas through corporate structures. i am confident that my ano colleague petr ježek will do an excellent job for our group on this important committee. the committee intends to shed light on the presumed shortcomings in eu law regarding money laundering and tax evasion and avoidance. it will be in place for one year.
in writing. i abstained in the vote on the approval of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and lebanon. lebanon is a member of the euro-mediterranean partnership, which aims primarily at deeper economic cooperation with the 16 countries bordering the eu in north africa and the middle east. the purpose of the vote was to express parliament's agreement or disagreement with the protocol to the eu-lebanon agreement and to make some formal changes to the agreement in connection with the accession of new states to the eu after its conclusion. as the agreement is generally aimed at the gradual establishment of a free market between lebanon and the eu, which could have some adverse economic consequences for lebanon, i could not support the proposal. in my view, in general, when concluding economic cooperation agreements, it is necessary to take into account the negative effects that the agreements may have, for example, on the country's agriculture or industry and to try to limit them as much as possible. it is also necessary to establish in the treaties rules for respecting human rights and to regulate the sanctions for their violation. we won't find any such clause in the agreement. on the other hand, i recognise that the will to conclude an agreement and gradually deepen economic cooperation between the eu and lebanon came directly from the lebanese state authorities, who want to deepen cooperation.
in writing. - i voted against it. i'm all for free trade and cooperation agreements. i do not, however, agree with the inclusion of the lebanese republic in the programmes of the european union. the best way to let poorer countries get rich is to remove trade barriers, not to send subsidies out of the pockets of european taxpayers.
in writing. - lebanon is a strategic partner of the eu in the middle east. the country faces security threats especially in relation to its neighbourhood with war-torn syria. lebanon has now given asylum to around 1 million refugees, whom the eu is trying to help through newly created trust funds. it is therefore in the eu's best interest to strengthen stability in the country and develop the capacity to cope with the current difficult situation. i am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the report on the need to strengthen cooperation and support for lebanon.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, lebanon expressed its interest in participating in the broad range of programmes open to partner countries of the european neighbourhood policy. the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement, which is a response to this expression of interest, establishes an association between the eu, its member states and lebanon and aims to define the financial and technical rules permitting lebanon to participate in certain eu programmes. i voted in favour of this protocol, as i believe that lebanon is a key partner of the european union in the region. promoting dialogue, cooperation and exchange with our lebanese counterparts will hopefully improve diplomatic relations between our citizens, contribute to the development of lebanon, and increase the chances for peace in this very fragile region.
in writing. - i got held up. i abstain on the accession of new member states to the existing agreement.
in writing. ‒ the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishes an association between the eu, its member states and lebanon, and aims to define the financial and technical rules permitting lebanon to participate in certain eu programmes. i voted in favour of the protocol’s recognition of the accession of the countries that joined the eu in 2004, namely the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and slovakia. only by involving all the members of the eu in this cooperation can we ensure that these efforts will positively affect the lives of both lebanese and europeans.
in writing. - i got held up. i abstain on the accession of new member states to the existing agreement.
in writing. ‒ cooperation with partner countries in the european neighbourhood can only be successful if all the european member states are involved. this is why i voted in favour of the recognition of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu by the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement. this agreement establishes an association between the eu, its member states and lebanon, in view of increasing cooperation projects between the eu and lebanon to foster stronger ties between europeans and lebanese and contributing to the continued development of lebanon.
in writing. ‒ monaco is considered one of the few tax havens in the world. the tax system in monaco is virtually devoid of income tax, property tax, real estate tax, land tax or capital gains tax. the only direct tax is the income tax on po, which is 33,33% of the profit, but even this is quite benevolent to the taxpayers. the fight against tax havens and tax fraud is necessary, which is why i supported the eu-monaco agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information. the agreement will help prevent taxpayers from hiding their capital abroad, but will also improve international tax cooperation and compliance. under the new agreement, eu countries and monaco will be able to automatically exchange information on financial accounts held by each other's nationals on their territory. the exchange of information on financial accounts between eu countries and monaco will also be intensified and financial support will be easier to identify.
in writing. ‒ cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion are harmful for our economy, as well as for our financial credibility and long-term sustainability. this is why i voted in favour of amending the protocol to the agreement concluded between the eu and monaco, which aims at improving international tax cooperation and compliance through the automatic exchange of financial account information. this agreement will increase tax transparency in europe by ensuring that monaco applies the same measures on the taxation of savings income as those currently applied in the eu. it will also incorporate a new set of provisions to reflect the global standard for automatic exchange of financial account information developed by the oecd in 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this report as it deepens international cooperation in the field of taxation and commits to complying with the relevant regulations. i believe that this agreement is an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the aim of the agreement is to ensure that monaco applies stricter measures equivalent to the eu legal framework. in particular, i appreciate the possibility in this measure to establish correctly and unequivocally the identity of the taxpayers concerned and to assess the likelihood of tax evasion.
in writing. i voted to release funds to the belgian firm hainaut machinery. the european globalisation adjustment fund shall provide assistance to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns linked to globalisation. the fund grants are intended to provide workers with career guidance, training, retraining and vocational training as well as mobility allowances. since the belgian authorities have provided the necessary information and since this case qualifies for a grant, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted against it. i'm against taxpayer money and competing firms subsidizing companies that are failing in the market. the best thing we can do for business is to loosen bureaucracy, reduce taxes and improve the business environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers in belgium who lost their jobs at hainaut machinery, a company producing construction equipment. in recent years, trade in the sector of machinery and equipment manufacture has suffered significantly because of the declining public and private investments in infrastructure, the increasing cost of steel, and the delocalisation of production to other countries. furthermore, the situation of hainaut machinery also has a negative effect on the suppliers as well as on the local and regional economy of the region hainaut, which has been facing an unemployment rate of 14.5%. the fund will thus provide the former employees with much needed advice, guidance and training to improve their future employability, will offer training allowances and facilitate their job-search.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the multiannual plan for the recovery of the bluefin tuna stock. the plan represents a number of steps necessary to achieve the objective. the tacs should be reduced. it is also necessary to introduce stricter rules for catches in certain areas and during certain periods. the strengthening of international control is an equally important step. it is important to apply the agreed rules uniformly and to ensure a level playing field for all fishermen, including foreigners, in order to successfully restore the tuna stock. without the same rules for non-eu fishermen, we cannot achieve the desired result.
in writing. - i got held up. i regularly miss these reports because the czech republic has no sea.
in writing. ‒ bluefin tuna is one of the top predators in the mediterranean sea, a crucial species for its ecosystem, and has a very high economic value, both in the european and japanese market. in the late 90s however, the mediterranean stock dramatically decreased to levels compromising the future of the species and the viability of the fishing sector. the multi-annual bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean established in 2006 by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) was very efficient in contributing to the recovery of the stock. this is why i voted in favour of transposing this plan into eu law, as i hope that it will contribute to ensuring the exploitation of living aquatic resources under sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions. i particularly agree with the decision to ensure equitable distribution between the various fleets and support small scale and artisanal fisheries, which usually practice sustainable fishing practices and ensure the livelihood of many local communities.
in writing. this report brings with it a long-awaited blueprint for fisheries policy, which no longer focuses on one species but takes account of the evolution of different species and their interaction. the plan should help to ensure a balanced and sustainable fishing of these species and the stability of opportunities and thus the livelihoods of fishermen. an important part of the proposal is to guarantee the use of current scientific knowledge concerning both the stocks of the species concerned, the interactions between them and other aspects of sustainable fishing. i believe that this baltic sea plan is a big step in the right direction towards reforming the common fisheries policy and sustainable fishing and i was therefore pleased to vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i got held up. i regularly miss these reports because the czech republic has no sea.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of this first multiannual plan under the reformed common fisheries policy. it is precisely because this is the first multiannual plan, which will logically be a model for similar plans for other seas, that setting the conditions is of particular importance. this is also why it has been so difficult to reach agreements and concessions between parliament and the council. the plan aims to ensure sustainable fishing for cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea. last year, parliament decided to postpone the vote on this issue, mainly because of the impossibility of reaching a compromise on the fish mortality rate. parliament pushed for far more stringent measures. while it has only succeeded in enforcing the partial limitations on flexibility proposed by the member states in the trialogue, i welcome the fact that it has also succeeded in enforcing stronger safeguards with regard to sustainable fishing. the social democrats have done an excellent job in this respect within the committee on fisheries. i welcome the fact that the committee's position was confirmed today by the plenary.
in writing. ‒ cod, herring and sprat represent 94% of catches in the baltic sea and are important components of the very sensitive baltic ecosystem. this is why i voted in favour of establishing a multiannual plan, whose aim is to establish a framework for the multispecies management of these stocks and the fisheries exploiting them, in order to reverse the effects of their overfishing in the eu. based on sound scientific advice and an innovative long-term perspective, it strives to become a pioneer tool in fisheries management policies. the plan will thus provide for a balanced, sustainable exploitation of cod, herring and sprat stocks promote the stability of fishing opportunities and thereby guarantee the livelihoods of fishers. beyond the content of this plan, i also welcome the increased participation of the european parliament in european fisheries policies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal on the property relations of international couples, which affects some 16 million such couples in the eu. this report dealt with the case of international marriages or registered partnerships and the settlement of property in the event of divorce, legal separation or death. the new legal framework gives couples from 18 eu countries the choice of which jurisdiction to deal with their case, to avoid parallel proceedings in two states and possible conflicting court decisions. this will provide legal certainty, harmonisation of rules and better access to fair proceedings for international couples. the same rights will be guaranteed to both married couples and registered partners.
in writing. - i got held up. i'm in favor of states voluntarily agreeing to recognize decisions on marital property. i think this is a classic example of how to use intergovernmental cooperation without the involvement of the european parliament and the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of the property relations act. the main contribution of this proposal is to clarify the status of international married couples. as this type of union is becoming more frequent thanks to the free movement of persons, it is important that it be properly treated legally in all matters, including property matters. the compromise form of the proposal, which does not interfere with the autonomy of the member states in matters of family law and thus prevents it from being rejected by the member states, as has already happened, is also a significant reason for supporting it.
in writing. i supported the legislative resolution on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property regime. although the increasing number of marriages with an international element has become an unquestionable daily reality in the union, international couples are still faced with practical problems in the settlement of their property, such as which law will govern the specific property situation or which court will have jurisdiction to settle their property. the result is legal uncertainty, delays in the case and the associated disproportionate costs. enhanced cooperation will create a clear legal framework for the settlement of thousands of international marriages in the participating member states. the property relations of international marriages will thus be dealt with in a comprehensive manner, under a single applicable law and by a single judicial body. in particular, i appreciate the flexible jurisdictional regulation for the settlement of property and the principle of the unity of the applicable law, where the applicable law will apply to the property as a whole. this avoids fragmentation of the arrangement, with different legal systems applying to different parts of the spouses' property. i am also pleased that, while the draft regulation brings forward progressive practical elements, it preserves the autonomy of the member states in the area of family law. the regulation does not in any way affect or change the substantive law of the czech republic governing the institution of marriage and its legal consequences.
in writing. ‒ due to the increased mobility, cooperation and exchange inside the eu, the eu now counts 16 million international couples, most commonly bound by the ties of marriage. this is why i voted in favour of a new legal framework that will clarify and simplify property rules in cases of divorce, legal separation or death for international married couples, by determining the jurisdiction and the law applicable to their property regimes. this is an indispensable measure to put an end to the practical and legal difficulties and costs these couples have to face, in line with the principle that every european citizen has the right to equal treatment in front of our national institutions.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because the regulation will be a very useful tool for international marriage within the european union, while preserving the autonomy of the member states in family law. i appreciate that parliament's demands have been heeded. i am convinced that this proposal for a regulation on matrimonial property regime is in the best interests of the union and its international married couples and that it will resolve a number of uncertainties and legal problems.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal on the property relations of international couples, which affects some 16 million such couples in the eu. this report dealt with the case of international marriages as well as registered partnerships and their property settlement in the event of divorce, separation or death. the new legal framework gives couples from 18 eu countries the choice of which jurisdiction to deal with their case, to avoid parallel proceedings in two states and possible conflicting court decisions. this will provide legal certainty, harmonisation of rules and better access to fair proceedings for international couples. the same rights will be guaranteed to both married couples and registered partners.
in writing. when voting on the council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property regimes and registered partnerships, i voted in favour of the proposal. within the eu, the number of partnerships with an international element is increasing. the regulation therefore aims, in particular, to simplify the regime of joint property of spouses and registered partners, both in everyday life and in the event of divorce or death of one of the partners. the regulation provides for greater legal certainty within those bundles, inter alia, by facilitating the designation of a common court and the mutual recognition of judgments in related cases by the member states. all property relationships of international couples originating in eu member states will thus be administered by the courts of one member state, irrespective of the nature of the property, both in the context of their daily relationships and in the event of divorce or death of one of the partners. as there is no agreement between all member states in this respect, the regulation will only be applied between 17 member states through so-called closer cooperation. in view of the increasing number of marriages and registered partnerships with an international element, it is important in my view to simplify the resulting processes, including the property relations of these persons. i therefore supported the draft regulation.
in writing. - i got held up. i am in favour of states voluntarily agreeing to recognise decisions on matters of property relations in registered partnerships. i think this is a classic example of how to use intergovernmental cooperation without the involvement of the european parliament and the eu.
in writing. i supported the draft regulation, which i believe will be a very useful tool for international couples in the european union. in matters of property consequences of registered partnerships, it concerns jurisdiction, the applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions. however, it does not cover, in particular, questions of the legal capacity of the partners, the existence, validity and recognition of a partnership, maintenance obligations and the inheritance of the property of a deceased partner. the autonomy of the member states in the area of family law is thus preserved. nor does it concern the legislation of the member states on registered partnerships or its legal consequences. the ep was an active participant in the negotiations and succeeded in achieving a substantial improvement in the content of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ as a result of increased integration between european countries, the eu now counts 16 million international couples, namely 32 million citizens. while marriage remains the most common type of union, new forms of partnerships have emerged, including the registered partnership, by which two people in a stable relationship formally register their union with a public authority. these couples often encounter great difficulties when it comes to the property rights of their union, because of the significant difference regarding the rules governing registered partnerships between the different eu countries. this is why i voted in favour of the proposal that will enable international couples in the eu to benefit from legal security, a better access to justice and harmonised rules regarding property rights. concretely, it will allow citizens in international couples to have the various procedures related to property rights, namely divorce, legal separation and death procedures, handled by the courts of the same eu country.
in writing. i supported the joint resolution in response to the worrying escalation of violence and the deteriorating humanitarian situation in the democratic republic of congo, caused in particular by the long-running armed conflict in the eastern provinces. parliament called on all parties to the conflict to put an immediate end to the violence and to establish a dialogue aimed at a peaceful settlement of the situation. it also urges a thorough, independent and transparent investigation of the massacres with the full cooperation of the drc. however, this situation should not prevent the planned elections from taking place, precisely because the successful and timely holding of elections will be crucial for the long-term stability and development of the country.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the joint motion for a resolution on the massacres in eastern congo. it did not express concern at the increase in actions that destabilise the situation and constitute a joint interference by various governments and multinational corporations in the affairs of several countries on the african continent. it did not condemn the fact that the basic needs of the people of the drc are systematically sacrificed to the economic and geopolitical interests of multinational corporations and foreign powers. it did not call for the launch of an independent investigation into how companies, especially european ones, comply with social and environmental standards in the natural resources sector and what links these companies may have to the financing of armed groups, nor did it call for the launch of an international investigation to shed light on the alleged links between structural change programmes, financial subsidies from international financial institutions and crimes committed in the country. we criticize governments all the time, but we don't often dare to criticize corporations, even though they're often the ones who do the most damage in africa. the congo is a very clear example.
in writing. - i got held up. i am sorry that there is violence in the congo, but the european parliament's resolution will not change the situation. i do not think it is the role of the european parliament to adopt resolutions on all the conflicts in the world.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the massacres in eastern congo. in view of the worrisome deterioration of the situation in the country, the international community needs to take appropriate measures. it is therefore right that parliament has supported the protection measures already in place in the country, such as the un monusco mission, and called on international organisations and states to do more to address the situation.
in writing. i have voted in favour of this resolution, as i am deeply concerned about the situation in the democratic republic of congo. in 20 years of conflict, thousands of lives have been lost, and there is daily sexual and other violence against women and children. on 28 january, a military cooperation agreement between monusco and the armed forces of the drc (fardc) was signed in kinshasa with the aim of restoring and consolidating peace and security in the eastern region and throughout the country, but this agreement is not being respected. it is urgently necessary to resume cooperation in order to neutralize all armed groups which, moreover, often use children to fight in their ranks. it is necessary that elections, which are a necessary prerequisite for the country's continued functioning, be held as soon as possible. i am convinced that the european union has not yet exhausted all its options to help resolve the conflict, in particular by enhancing cooperation with the african union, supporting civil society, arms and commodities trade, but also by supporting the government of the drc in implementing legislation prohibiting the trade in and processing of minerals in areas where illegal mining (so-called conflict minerals) takes place. in particular, in the latter, we need to do much more, in particular to translate the european agreement on mandatory controls on suppliers of conflict minerals into legislation that needs to be adopted urgently.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution stating that the massacres carried out in the east of the democratic republic of congo (drc) amid general indifference have to stop and those responsible for the atrocities brought to justice. indeed, i am deeply concerned by the continuing deterioration in the security and humanitarian situation in the country in this pre-election period which has seen an escalation in the violence. it is now high time that all parties to the conflict to put an end to the violence, lay down their arms, and release all children from their ranks. i also call for quick and active resumption of collaboration between monusco and the rdc armed forces, on the basis of the military cooperation agreement signed on 28 january. in order to ensure the future and reconciliation in drc i call with my colleagues from the european parliament for a thorough, independent and transparent investigation to be launched by the international community into the massacres, with the full collaboration of the drc government and monusco.
‒ in the light of high youth unemployment, but also the new challenge of migration, european cooperation in education and training needs to be reviewed. et 2020 is a forum for the exchange of best practices, mutual learning, gathering and dissemination of information, where working groups composed of experts appointed by member states cooperate. the report aims to improve the monitoring and coordination of the existing framework in order to further improve the quality of education and training. it also wants to pay more attention to the integration of asylum seekers into the labour market, for example through language courses and basic skills training, and to help improve their qualifications and subsequently their chances of being employed in the labour market. i was happy to support a report that took account of new trends and challenges.
in writing. although i voted in favour of the articles of the resolution when they were adopted, i abstained from voting on the resolution as a whole. the draft resolution summarises the objectives of european cooperation in the field of education and training in the union. the resolution stresses, among other things, the integration of immigrant children into society through their full-fledged education, the functioning of the so-called bologna system, the need for better financial evaluation and lifelong learning of teachers at all levels, and the benefits and challenges of the erasmus programme. it also mentions the ongoing problems of unequal access to quality education in the eu and unemployment among some university graduates. while i agree with many of the ideas expressed in the resolution, i cannot agree with some aspects of the overall direction of the document. first of all, i think that the resolution goes into some minor details and only touches on the essential ones. i would therefore appreciate less emphasis on private companies' cooperation with educational institutions or the modification of the bologna system and, on the contrary, more emphasis on equal access to quality education without social discrimination as well as fair financial evaluation of teachers. in accordance with the above, i therefore abstained from voting on the resolution.
in writing. - i voted against it. i reject the call that education ministers must work with the european commission to ensure equal access to high quality education, in particular by seeking to involve the most disadvantaged and people from different backgrounds, including newly arrived migrants, in this process and to integrate them into a positive learning environment. education is a matter for the nation states and the eu has no say in it.
in writing. i supported the proposal to continue the strategic framework for european cooperation in education. since education is a key area for the development of society, union action in this area is of great importance. indeed, the lack of education is responsible for many of the problems that plague society today - in particular xenophobia and radicalism. i very much appreciate that the proposal honestly reflects the problems facing the european education system and provides answers that can contribute to their solution. for example, i welcome the efforts to involve experts from different fields in working groups, which will allow proposals to be made that can lead to a broader concept of education.
in writing. ‒ education and training are important, but not the only prerequisite for access to the labour market and for social inclusion. it is therefore important to promote equal access to lifelong learning for all. i therefore welcome the evaluation of the strategic framework for education and training 2020 and agree that it should be reformed to be more in line with practice and take into account the recommendations of the parties' experience to date.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the continuation of the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (et 2020). i was the shadow rapporteur for this report for the epp and i agree with the way it came out. i'm glad it was passed by such a large majority. the final vote managed to drop some of the controversial points against mobility and the bologna process, which i consider to be important and beneficial aspects of eu education policy. the report fully respects the fact that education is primarily in the hands of the member states. however, the eu is expected to provide a framework for skills, training to promote inclusion and reduce radicalisation, and recommendations for bringing education and the labour market closer together to reduce youth unemployment. on the other hand, the report rightly emphasises that education is a value in itself and not just a means of meeting the needs of the labour market. in this context, i have succeeded in inserting into the report an emphasis on ethical and personal education, as well as an emphasis on the irreplaceable role of parents in the educational process and in communication with schools. it is good that the report gives a positive assessment of the eu's actions to support teachers, including the use of the erasmus+ programme. overall, the report emphasises the quality of education over quantity, and also the need to integrate refugee and migrant children into the education system.
in writing. ‒ faced with high youth unemployment and the new challenges of migration, it is essential to rethink our take on european cooperation in education and training. that is why i voted in favour of improving the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training 2020 (et2020), which is an umbrella for all eu-level policy exchanges on education and training between eu countries. it is important that we enhance the quality of education and training by extending cooperation with more stakeholders from civil society, by ensuring coherent, transparent and inclusive education for a diverse group of learners, and by promoting a new agenda for adult learning. this is also an opportunity to reiterate the importance of creating access for migrants to language courses, basic skills training and higher education, in order to facilitate their integration into society and the labour market. finally, better cooperation between eu member states would certainly be very helpful in establishing new, innovative and interactive methods of teaching, training and learning.
in writing. - i decided to support this report. education and training are important in helping people to acquire the knowledge and skills that make them competitive and innovative employees. i particularly appreciate the fact that support for teachers has been included among the priority areas of the et 2020 framework. the quality of teacher training and continuing professional development programmes remains inadequate in view of the increasing complexity and competences required for teaching today. i am in favour of paying particular attention to the needs of different types of pupils, such as pupils from ethnic or religious minorities, or children from low-income or migrant families, who are now back in the spotlight as a result of accelerated mobility within europe and the current refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ while the eu is well on track to meet its 2020 renewable energy targets, it is clear that many member states need to strengthen their policies and instruments to ensure that the targets are met. the report focuses on the importance of sharing best practices or the need to assess the impact of renewables on prices, in particular for households. it stresses the need for european legislation on energy market rules, stable and efficient renewable energy support regimes for long-term investments, which are also adapted to national needs and circumstances. environmental care is truly a global problem. i was happy to support the report calling for more effective cooperation and coordination within and between member states.
in writing. renewable resources are a rewarding topic of philosophical discussion. the radical demands for 100% coverage of energy needs in the next few years are technically justified by philosophical considerations and the real technician is amazed at how simple everything is. if we take seriously the objective of ensuring strict environmental protection on the one hand and 100% renewable energy on the other, we are faced with a contradiction which is difficult to resolve. wind farms are fundamentally changing the landscape wherever they are located. the several hectares of photovoltaic plants have a significant impact on local air flows, as do the large valley water reservoir projects. the daily and annual distribution of electricity consumption does not correspond to the sunlight, wind or rainfall ratios. so we're left with biomass and geothermal energy. when comparing the possibilities of individual renewable sources, we find that on the one hand there are a large number of administrative obstacles (in particular for the connection of small photovoltaic and the installation of small hydropower plants) and on the other hand there are legitimate concerns of the operators of large electricity networks about ensuring the stability of the whole system. electricity is very difficult to store. these problems are not addressed in the report. as well as the overly optimistic outlook, the report contains a number of positive suggestions and i assume that the most fantastic proposals will not be accepted, so i support the adoption of the report.
in writing. on 23 june 2016, we voted on the progress report on renewable energy at the european parliament's extraordinary plenary session in brussels. this was a report by the committee on industry, research and energy. but this is also a long-standing concern of my committee on the environment, public health and food safety. that is why i was very critical of the text presented from the outset. first of all, i have to say that i abstained from the vote. although the documentary ended up with some good things, like mentioning the issue of energy poverty or pushing for new generations of biofuels at the expense of the old and flawed, i could not support it in good conscience. in my view, the report is unbalanced, for example, by its strong endorsement of the use of biomass, which we all know today is totally unsustainable in terms of emissions and its negative impact on food self-sufficiency. the whole text says that the only right source for the future of energy is renewable energy, which is unacceptable. the report omits any mention of nuclear energy, which it no longer envisages in the future. they also ignore any potential breakthroughs in the industry, such as cold fusion.
in writing. - i voted against it. i am against the european commission interfering in the energy policies of the member states. i also disagree with environmental activism that leads to energy prices and subsidies for inefficient resources. i'm against a more ambitious climate and energy package by 2030.
in writing. i supported the progress report on renewable energy because i consider political support for the transformation of the energy grid towards renewable energy to be absolutely crucial. the reason is not just to combat climate change, but also to promote energy security and the development of new economic sectors. i also appreciate the report's critical approach to some aspects of promoting renewable sources, such as promoting biofuels in transport.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the european parliament, thanks in part to my vote, has adopted this report today. the report assesses the progress the eu has made towards its target of 20% renewables in the eu energy mix by 2020. the report also looks at the outlook beyond 2020. as in the energy efficiency report, i am not satisfied with the low ambition of the targets originally proposed by the commission the commission has abolished the binding targets at national level and has only set a europe-wide target of 27% by 2030, which is really low. i am therefore very pleased that the commission has been able to send a clear message that it is through binding national targets that the current 2020 targets are being achieved and that the abolition of national targets is a big mistake. the social democrats have also long held the view that the european-wide target for 2030 should be at least 45% renewable energy, and this requirement has also been successfully implemented in the report.
in writing. i finally voted in favour of the resolution on the progress report on renewable energy. the non-binding resolution responds to the commission's evaluation report of last year and sets out the commission's ideas for the upcoming revision of the relevant legislation. the commission report notes that the target of at least 20% of energy from renewable sources by 2020 is likely to be met, which is welcomed by the european parliament. i am pleased that the czech republic is recognised in the resolution as a country that is well ahead of its target. the resolution addresses some of the problems that the introduction of renewable sources has brought and calls for effective solutions. for example, it points out that some member states have neglected their transmission networks and these are now unable to accommodate the surges of energy from renewable sources. the czech republic is also facing the consequences of the shortcomings of the german transmission network. i also think it is important to mention the impact of renewable energy support on agriculture. the cultivation of crops for the production of biofuels shall not be contrary to food production or food safety.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report on the implementation of the renewables directive (2009/28/ec) concentrates on the results achieved, their added value and the opportunities provided for european citizens and businesses, as well as reasons why certain member states are struggling to meet ambitious targets set in the directive. while most of the member states are well on track to achieving 20% renewables targets by 2020, and some are even ahead, a few will probably fail to deliver. the european policies on renewable energy and sustainability are very important, especially for our future development. the rapporteur made a number of good points and, even though i do not agree on all the points in the report, i believe it is important to recognise the role of renewables in the eu’s energy market and to support their further integration into the market. therefore, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i support this report. i believe that our primary responsibility is to fight climate change, which is a historic duty that we must take on. at the same time, we need to reduce our dependence on energy resources from the rest of the world if we are to not only be at the forefront of developing strategic technologies for the energy transition, but also to support our manufacturing model and create quality jobs. i believe that the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a societal priority that cannot be addressed from a market perspective alone. it must be understood that regulation and democratic participation are necessary to avoid serious social and environmental side effects.
in writing. ‒ although the energy efficiency directive has started positive developments in the member states, the lack of implementation is undermining its potential. member states were invited to promote smart metering and transparent billing as a way of encouraging more responsible consumer behaviour with regard to consumption and investment in energy efficiency. there is still a lot of common effort to be made to achieve the objectives set, and i therefore voted in favour of the report, which points out the shortcomings and urges the member states and the commission to take effective and timely action in implementing the directive.
in writing. on 23 june, at the european parliament's extraordinary plenary session in brussels, we voted on the itre report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive. although the main committee responsible for this report was the itre committee, the envi committee, of which i am a member, also issued its report on the subject of the proposed energy efficiency directive. i was a shadow reporter for this report. from the very beginning, we in the envi committee have been faced with great pressure to set binding, new and very ambitious targets for the new energy efficiency era. personally, i agree that energy efficiency is itself an energy source, but given what we are currently learning from the whole emissions cheating scandal in the automotive industry dieselgate , i strongly insist that any further determination of emission ceilings or energy targets should always be based on real and solid data, predictions and, above all, be practicable and achievable by the member states. and that is exactly what i was lacking in the negotiations on the text of this report. the text of the report sets out a very ambitious target, but very little attention is paid to the problem of how to achieve it successfully and, above all, in time. so i could not support him in good conscience.
in writing. - i voted against it. i don't agree that the decline in fossil fuel prices is a negative phenomenon. instead, it means more money saved for citizens and businesses and growth for the economy. i strongly disagree with the argument that lower fuel prices and the outlook for economic growth could further jeopardise the achievement of the 20% target. only rich economies can afford to invest in innovation, so i'm not opposed to lowering prices. it is clear that the european commission wants to pursue its policy even at the cost of impoverishing the population and with absolutely uncertain or no result.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report which highlights the importance of energy efficiency for the eu's sustainable economic development and calls for the adoption of an ambitious binding energy efficiency target of 40% by 2030. i am convinced that this set target represents cost-effective energy efficiency that will benefit both companies and consumers. the report also rightly points out that seven member states have not introduced energy audits. i'm glad the czech republic isn't one of those countries.
in writing. as the shadow rapporteur for this report, i very much welcome the final form, as it has managed to strengthen a number of elements that were omitted from the original proposal. the current energy efficiency directive is a good basis for achieving europe's climate and energy goals, including the ambitious cop 21 commitments. however, this will only be achieved if some of its shortcomings, in particular excessive flexibility, are removed. as a result, we are lagging behind our targets and, if nothing changes, we will not achieve a 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020. the report calls for a binding 40% energy efficiency target, because if we do not meet this target, we will be closing the way to greater savings, to fostering innovation and to strengthening our dependence on imports. the report also pays great attention to the fight against energy poverty. lastly, it draws the commission's attention to the need to address competing legislation, in particular legislation on energy efficiency, the promotion of renewable sources and the emissions trading system. in this respect, i consider it absolutely essential that there be an analysis of the mutual effects and that the commission come up with a proposal that effectively addresses this situation.
in writing. i did not support the resolution on the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive. the resolution responds to a commission report assessing the progress of member states in implementing measures to achieve the energy efficiency target by 2020. the european union has set a non-binding target of 20% energy savings, and the energy efficiency directive contains the instruments to achieve this target. the resolution welcomes the flexibility of the directive member states can choose the best energy efficiency tool for them. however, the commission itself and the ep (ep in resolution) regret that this target will not be met by 2020. the resolution also points out that the instruments for achieving individual energy and climate targets by 2020 are often competing with each other and are therefore ineffective. it also correctly points out the problems of member states adding additional requirements, particularly bureaucratic ones, to businesses and consumers that are not required by european legislation. but the main problem with the resolution is that the left-wing factions have pushed the mention of the 2030 climate goals into it. in october 2014, member states agreed on a non-binding target of 27% energy efficiency improvements by 2030 (with a possible increase to 30%). but the resolution calls for a 40% binding target. this formulation was unacceptable to the ppe group of meps, and that is why my colleagues and i did not support the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of this implementation report is to assess implementation of the energy efficiency directive (2012/27/eu). the issue of energy efficiency is also closely related to development in the field of renewables. while the energy efficiency directive entered into force relatively recently, some conclusions can be drawn. while many member states are on track to achieving 20% efficiency target for 2020, full implementation is highly unlikely. the report further highlights the need to focus on improvements in the building sector, which accounts for 40% of total energy consumption and 36% of co2 emissions in the eu, the need to protect vulnerable consumers, improve conditions and provide technical support to those who wish to become prosumers. the rapporteur has pointed out that energy efficiency should be treated as an energy resource, thus decreasing eu dependency on energy imports from third countries, especially gas imports. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report because i have long disagreed with the setting of binding energy efficiency targets. the report also calls for a further increase to 40%.
in writing. ‒ the european union must change and european leaders must take responsibility for the current state of affairs. the truth is sometimes simple, but we all know the road will be extremely difficult. now is the time for all of us to speak with one voice. we're talking about change and the need to return to the interests of the citizens. we're talking about how we need to start listening to their needs and desires, because they've had enough of empty statements and empty talk. but the president of the commission is talking about other problems. he said he was sorry to be seen as a robot and a technocrate. he also informed us that he was saddened by the uk's departure from the eu and that it was an emotional moment for him. nigel farage asked why he was in the plenary, but he had to watch his winning smile for the rest of the morning. i just want to know one thing - has the commission president realised that it is also his fault that right-wing populists are celebrating and planning another referendum? i don't think so, and that's the problem. nobody wants to take responsibility. the eu does not have a strong personality. faced with the shock, the eu finds itself without a leader capable of solving its problems. juncker has to give up his seat. i did not support the joint resolution because it did not address the main issue - who is responsible for the break-up of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the i voted against the resolution. the decision of the british voters in the referendum to leave the european union must be respected and i do not agree with the exploitation of britain's departure to further centralize the eu. i specifically disagree with the call to restrict the rights of member states to choose their own level of integration (it is necessary to avoid a solution whereby member states themselves choose the areas of integration). i see this as pressure to introduce the euro in the czech republic, regardless of the will of the citizens of our country. i also disagree with the call to strengthen the eu's powers in response to brexit (the ep calls for a blueprint for a better union, based on the full potential of the lisbon treaty and culminating in a treaty revision). i also disagree with the decision to reorganise the european parliament (the ep will make changes to its internal organisation in view of the will of the uk citizens to withdraw from the european union), which can be read as an attempt by the ep to exclude british meps from the ep before the formal termination of the uk's membership. before britain leaves the eu, which could take another two years, british meps are entitled to full representation.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the joint motion for a resolution on the united kingdom's decision to withdraw from the eu, which is the result of the referendum. in the proposal, we respect the outcome of the citizens' will and we are considering the next step, namely the activation of article 50 of the treaty, i.e. the launch of the process of withdrawal from the eu. but i am completely lacking in any self-criticism, self-reflection and recognition of mistakes, especially on the part of the commission. there is only one, and it is the still imperfect provision on social policy, listening to the citizens and reducing the bureaucracy that is so much criticised. we don't think at all about the reasons why the british people voted the way they did in the referendum. i also find it problematic that the resolution does not mention the situation in scotland and northern ireland, let alone the lies and biased information on which the campaign in support of so-called brexit was based. the result of the referendum is, in popular terms, the 'faction' of the eu as it stands. i also lack a more detailed plan, a vision, in the resolution, of the way forward so that we can recover from the historically low levels of support and confidence of citizens in the eu. because of these shortcomings, i could not support the resolution and voted against it.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote on the european parliament's resolution on the decision to withdraw from the eu, which is the result of the referendum in the united kingdom, i abstained because i believe that the resulting text is not adequate to the situation, which in my opinion requires balance above all. the result of the referendum is the clear will of the majority of the uk voters to leave the eu, and i do not question that will. however, from a legal point of view, the process of withdrawal from the eu can only be initiated after the member state has confirmed and notified its intention to do so. this has not happened at the moment and i do not think it is necessary at this point to require the notification to be made within a number of days. the uk government is responsible for announcing its intention to leave the eu, and we should respect that responsibility. so, whether from this legal point of view or in the interest of future friendly cooperation between the eu and the uk, i believe that it is not appropriate now to publish hastily prepared political resolutions announcing, among other things, changes in the internal organisation of the european parliament (i.e. staff changes) a few days after the referendum, while the uk is still an eu member state.
in writing. ‒ the result of the british referendum is a massive shock for the eu which will lose one of its important members. it is a unique case in eu history and we must not underestimate the impact of such a decision for the future of the union. eu leaders and institutions need to provide a clear answer and agenda to this extraordinary situation. i nevertheless decided to abstain on this resolution, not because of the content which i share to a large extent, but because of the excessive pressure put on the british government. if i wish the european parliament to be fully involved in all stages of the procedures regarding both the agreement for the united kingdom’s exit and any future relationship between it and the future union of 27 member states, and the negotiation to start as soon as possible, i do not believe that calling for the immediate triggering of article 50 of the treaty is the best way to proceed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution mainly because i do not agree with the pressure to accelerate the activation of article 50, which is entirely within the competence of the uk government. furthermore, i reject calls for stronger integration in response to the current situation. the european union must be reformed to bring it closer to its citizens and to ensure greater respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
madam president, we all agree that the integration of refugees is a crucial task at a time when there are millions of refugees in europe and when we are bearing the fruits of failed integration in the form of ghettos, social exclusion and radicalisation. i am convinced that this is primarily the task and interest of the member states, which have different conditions but share the same interests in security and in the prosperity and dignified life of all citizens. of course, we can benefit from the european parliament's experience and, above all, from the support programmes. we must support member states in their efforts to do so, and provide asylum seekers with access to education and, where possible, to the labour market. however, from the european parliament's point of view, i would not like to impose on member states a faster access to the labour market for asylum seekers than the current directive allows. so, a reduction from nine months to six. that is something that the member states can do today, but we should not be telling them to do it. i also have difficulty supporting an increase in the european social fund's threshold for the integration of refugees from 23% to 25%. the commissioner has spoken in favour of this and i would leave it to the european commission. of course it is possible - and i even expect - that in the revision of the mff the european commission will decide to support the inclusion of the disadvantaged, and in particular migrants. but it is up to the european commission to decide why only 25% and not 30%. let the european commission decide according to the needs and different conditions of the member states.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. – mr president, with all due respect to our colleagues in the different political groups and with different opinions, i cannot give the green light to the attitude which i feel is contrary to our eu trade strategies, by politicising the trade agenda too much. i believe that human rights and trade are not contradictory, but complementary. i believe that trade is a key development instrument that brings growth and wealth, and therefore in the long term contributes to the development of human, labour and social rights. i stand for the strategy of engagement, instead of the policy of conditionality. i believe that we should treat our counterparts as trading partners on an equal footing, and that this kind of treatment will bring a solid basis for ongoing dialogue and cooperation. one free trade agreement in particular, that has only recently been concluded, the free trade agreement between the eu and vietnam, could serve as a very good example of that approach. i think that developing countries need social, labour and environmental standards that correspond in the first place with their level of economic and social development, and any effort to bring binding requirements, to impose binding requirements, which unfortunately is an attitude becoming more and more popular in this chamber, means that it will be harmful to them. it will be counterproductive and also de facto this means a certain exporting of protectionism from our side, and this is something that i cannot support.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, so what do we expect from the new trade strategy? well, first of all, it must not be business as usual. on the one hand, we are seeing more and more eu citizens interested in trade issues. however, on the other hand, there are increasing numbers of those concerned and fearful of the potential impact of the trade issues. we have to be able to come up with new ways to communicate these issues more effectively and to address citizens’ concerns. this would mean saying a clear ‘no’ to all forms of protectionism while aiming for trade that is both fair and responsible. i am convinced that a proper implementation of the strategy should start with an inventory of all current trade negotiations. for this to occur you would need to reallocate sufficient human resources within the commission services. the eu does not show itself to be very serious about this, when we see negotiations taking more than 12 or 15 years. we need to have clear priorities and deliver. personally, i see three key areas for our future trade policy. they should consist of: first, promoting a digital dimension of international trade; secondly, facilitating exchange in the services sector; and lastly, providing our companies, especially smes, with real new business opportunities. the success of our trade policy will ultimately be measured by how well eu companies can access foreign markets and how effectively we can respond to their daily problems.
mr president, commissioner, the thread running through this debate is the question of whether fairer trade is possible. i think, together with my colleagues, that it is, but it is important to remember that parliament also has a role to play in approving trade clauses. we should also remember that if a european company leaves a market, for example because of a failure to respect human rights or certain standards, it is usually prevented from doing so by another entrepreneur who has no regard for them. we should remember that, too. i would also like to point out that human rights can be seen from several angles. the first is that they are fundamental, they are truly universally inviolable. then there's the next generation of human rights. i do not wish to question their scope and listing, but some other geographical areas may find the scope of certain social rights rather problematic. i would therefore urge caution, but i also believe that fairer trade is possible.
mr president, i would like to raise an important point. although we have been talking about it for a long time, commissioner, it has not been sufficiently addressed. few people realise that mileage is one of the biggest problems facing consumers in the european union. experts estimate that this problem affects more than 30% of used cars in the european union. consumers lose more than 9 billion euros a year because of these unfair practices. fraudsters profit at the expense of society as a whole. and the european parliament, which represents this whole, should do everything in its power to protect citizens. after all, customers have a right to know the actual mileage they choose to purchase. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to advocate systemic legislative changes in this area.
madam president, i wanted to speak to the 52% but i am afraid that probably they have already resigned by now, so i have to skip that part and say the following: the outcome of the referendum is clear. we need to accept it and i think that whether johnson did this, farage did that, or whatever, they will be held responsible. it is none of our business. we have no influence. also, the uk will have less and less influence on how the eu will evolve and one day it will have zero influence. i do regret it, but it is a matter of fact. we need to have a good agreement, but i am still waiting for the message. what is it? we hear of a free-trade agreement, we have the internal market and the two things are different: free trade is free trade and the internal market is the internal market. full freedoms with the acquis. i think that this needs very much to be clarified, because we, the eu, have issues at stake. one remark concerns the european council. we have now a lot of thoughts. we have got blame towards the commission. the european council leaders clearly had no responsibility. we are, here again, intergovernmentalism, federalism, whatever. we do not see a message, we do not see a signal, we do not see a direction, we do not see the issues that are on the table: five, six imminent; five, 10 less imminent for the future. the conclusions, the resolutions of those. some of them may lead to more integration; some less. that debate is the debate of the past. that discourse belongs in the past. we need the issues and here we need the solutions. we need quick resolution and quick implementation. that is what the european council is for, and i think that this is what we expect. of course, the commission has to play this role. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – the question was directed at me, but i am calm and i am one of the strongest advocates of an ever-closer relationship between the uk and the eu. but two things have to be said. the first is that we need to understand what the uk really wants and i am getting mixed messages on that, so i am really at a loss. the closer the relationship the better, but it has to be balanced. the second issue is reform. we are now all reformists, we all speak of reforms, but this is what we really need. i mean we need a change but we need concrete proposals. we cannot be debating a european border and coast guard for a year. i am sorry, but this is political impotence.
madam speaker, ladies and gentlemen, please remember one thing, regardless of your political party. the british referendum gave people hope that democracy was not lost, that voting could make a difference. nigel farage, whether you like him or not, has given people hope that a simple man, uninvolved in the fraternity of ruling parties, can change the course of history from the bottom up, and this very bone-chilling institution as well. farage, although not in the british parliament, can use the power of his words, the power of his arguments to lead, to push his country towards independence. and for that, he deserves credit. and i understand that your curses are actually a manifestation of that appreciation. so, nigel, thank you for giving us hope, and that's why we in the czech republic are leading the movement for czexit, to have a safe, prosperous and free czech republic willing to cooperate with the other nations of europe.
madam president, it has been a really difficult and complicated week. we have a lot of things ahead, and obviously there is a slightly different agenda for our british friends than for our group of 27 if the uk decides to leave. it will take time to sort things out. i call for us to stay calm and behave correctly in the meantime and to respect the treaty. our colleague from ukip has said that he is looking for a relationship on trade like that of the us, china or russia. if this is so, he should bear in mind that, when we negotiate such treaties, we are strongly defending the interests of european citizens and not the interests of our counterparts. there are many issues on which europe can be made better for our citizens and these should be our priorities. i am very happy that the council was actually debating some of these issues. let me stress just a few of them. a sustainable economic policy is a precondition for economic growth, and jobs and growth are our key priorities. that is why the european semester recommendations should be respected. we should improve the functionality of the single market, for example in the digital field and in services. lastly, let me say that i appreciate the progress made in the area of taxation, thanks to the ability of the council to find common ground.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the eu-peru agreement, which will allow visa-free travel for citizens of both parties for short stays of up to 90 days. this agreement is a milestone in the deepening of relations between the union and the peruvians. peru has one of the fastest growing economies in latin america and eu countries are among the largest investors. i believe that granting visa-free access will boost tourism and lead to even more intensive trade relations and more investment. visa-free travel will also make life easier for students, tourists and diplomats. it is also a further way to intensify cultural relations and strengthen political dialogue with peru, including on human rights and fundamental freedoms, good governance and the rule of law.
in writing. - i voted against it. i usually vote for visa-free travel in the case of countries that are close or have no problems or in cases where the visa refusal rate has been low in the past. in the case of peru, the rejection rate was relatively high (6,1% in 2014), and the latin american country is now at risk of zika virus infection.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a draft report that would lift the visa requirement between the eu and the republic of peru for short stays. i see this agreement as a step towards deepening relations between the eu and peru, as well as a means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and deepening political dialogue on a wide range of issues. the agreement will also contribute to strengthening trade and investment relations. the eu is peru's third most important trading partner and largest investor. i supported the deal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the conclusion of the eu-peru agreement, as i consider it a very important milestone in our relations. it opens up the possibility not only of strengthening economic and cultural cooperation and of deepening political dialogue on the protection of human rights and freedoms, but also of improving cooperation in the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking. it is also worth mentioning that in recent years there has been a marked improvement in the asylum, forced return and irregular migration out of the country, with only 3% of visa applicants being rejected in 2015. peru has signed a strategic cooperation agreement with europol.
in writing. i have today supported the european parliament's consent to the conclusion of the eu-peru agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. this is the same situation as in the case of the introduction of the visa-free regime for colombian citizens. in other words, the european parliament's consent is given after the member states, the only ones capable of assessing the security aspect, have agreed to the introduction of a visa-free regime with peru and after an agreement on visa-free travel between the eu and peru has been concluded, which ensures equal treatment of all eu citizens without any discrimination. the european parliament is therefore now giving its consent to the conclusion of this agreement, after the member states have assessed the appropriateness of introducing a visa-free regime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-peru agreement, which will provide for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of peru when travelling to each other’s countries for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period, as this represents a milestone in the deepening of relations between europeans and peruvians. peru has recorded one of the highest rates of economic growth in latin america and the eu continues to be the biggest investor in peru, which is why i am confident that this agreement will also intensify trade and investment relations, and boost tourism. finally, the agreement will allow us to pursue a strong political dialogue on democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law, and to increase our cooperation on illegal immigration.
in writing. i voted to reduce emissions from off-road vehicles such as construction machinery, locomotives and small inland vessels, which are major contributors to air pollution. this adjustment will ensure that only machinery with engines complying with the new emission limits will be placed on the common market. we have to realize that non-road machines are responsible for up to 15% of all nitrogen emissions into the atmosphere, which is not a small amount. i believe that an agreement has been reached which balances well the need to protect the environment and the health of europeans and the competitiveness of european companies. i also welcome the aim of simplifying the current legal framework and simplifying administrative procedures leading to the removal of administrative burdens, which is in line with our long-term objective of better regulation in the eu.
in writing. on 5 july 2016, we voted at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg on the proposal for a regulation on the requirements relating to emission limit values and type-approval of combustion engines in non-road mobile machinery. european legislation has always been more focused on emissions from transport and cars in general. personally, i'm not a big fan of the fact that when it comes to emissions, for example, agriculture, unlike other sectors, is getting a lot of substantial exemptions from the caps all the time. but they do contribute greatly to the quality of the air we breathe. so i was glad that this time there were finally vehicles and vehicles that were not designed for road transport, such as lawn mowers, bulldozers, diesel locomotives, or combine harvesters, etc. on the other hand, it must be admitted that these types of vehicles/machinery require a very different approach than normal passenger cars. this is only because their actual life span is much longer, even extending over decades. the proposed regulation is a reasonable compromise between protecting the environment and safeguarding the competitiveness of the sectors concerned. so i'm glad i could support this text.
in writing. - i voted against it. i don't agree with the eu regulating the emission limits of tractors or lawn mowers. national legislation is sufficient.
in writing. i supported the approval of emission limits for internal combustion engines, which affect a wide range of machines from chainsaws, lawn mowers, ship bulldozers and locomotives. the limits approved apply to newly manufactured machines and a transitional period of sufficient duration has been agreed to allow all manufacturers to prepare for the new situation. the new legislation will not directly affect the users of these machines, and gardeners will of course not have to carry their lawn mowers to any emissions checks. the justification for its adoption is both the unification of the hitherto fragmented national regulations, which will improve the functioning of the common market, and the improvement of air quality, since analyses show that off-road machinery is responsible for up to 15% of all nitrogen emissions into the atmosphere and 5% of particulate matter emissions. i believe that at the present state of technological development there is no excuse for tolerating excessive release of toxins into the air.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the proposal to introduce emission limits for combustion engines not intended for road transport. these include motorboats, lawn mowers, bulldozers, diesel locomotives, and diesel generators. the waste from these machines accounts for around 15% of total nox emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions, and is estimated to increase to 19% by 2020, so it was necessary to address this issue. i believe that the new emission requirements should be in line with technological progress, but also stimulate it. another important element of this proposal was market harmonisation, which will contribute to the increased competitiveness of european products on international markets.
in writing. i supported the legislative resolution on the draft regulation on the requirements relating to emission limit values and type-approval of combustion engines in non-road mobile machinery. the resolution adopted by parliament contains amendments to the commission's original proposal which were informally negotiated with the member states. the council is yet to formally approve this regulation, which will then enter into force. the regulation replaces the 1997 directive. on the one hand, it will unify the 28 existing legal regimes into one, which is particularly welcomed by engine manufacturers. on the other hand, it modernizes an already somewhat outdated arrangement. the new regulation sets out the same rules in principle for all combustion engines, from those in locomotives to those in large construction machinery to those in chainsaws and lawnmowers. the emission limits limit the discharge of health-damaging nitrogen oxides (nox) and hazardous particulate matter from these engines in the future. the envi and imco colleagues have succeeded in refining the commission's original proposal and in bringing it into a form acceptable to both member states and industry representatives. i must emphasise in particular that the new limits will only apply to newly produced engines placed on the market. for consumers, nothing changes except that in the future their garden machines will emit less unhealthy exhaust gases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of limiting emissions for non-road mobile machinery, such as small equipment, construction machinery, locomotives and inland waterway vessels, which contribute significantly to air pollution. this regulation will ensure that only engines in compliance with the new emission-limits requirements will be allowed to be placed on the internal market. in addition to protecting human health and the environment better, it will ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for engines in non-road mobile machinery by improving the general conditions for enforcement, in particular through stronger rules on market surveillance. i am particularly supportive of the aim to simplify the current legal framework and simplify administrative procedures, which is in line with my commitment to bring better regulation to the eu.
in writing. ‒ although i believe it is necessary to help people in need who are eligible for humanitarian aid and who are considered as refugees under international law, i could not support this resolution. the quotas for sharing refugees are regarded by many member states as invalid – and i do not agree with them in principle. the answer to the crisis must be found at eu level but we need to concentrate on measures which really help individuals.
in writing. ‒ i welcome mr benifeia's efforts to contribute to the effective integration of refugees into the eu labour market. the report contains many important recommendations and suggestions. these include support for language and vocational education and literacy, equal rights for refugees to a wage in the country, involvement of civil society and voluntary organisations, etc. i could not support this resolution, however, because it contains fundamental points of concern with which i do not agree. this is mainly the adoption of a system of permanent redistribution of quotas. i believe that neither the permanent relocation mechanism nor the proposed asylum system are appropriate instruments to provide a lasting and acceptable solution to the migration crisis, nor will they contribute to the labour and social integration of the arriving refugees.
in writing. ‒ while i fully agree that labour market integration and social inclusion are the best ways to contribute to the good integration of migrants in the long term, i voted against the report. it contains certain elements which, in my view, are contrary to the objective of achieving a coherent migration policy. at this stage, it seems to me pointless to talk about a permanent relocation scheme binding on all member states and a common asylum system, as long as agreements on a broader framework for migration and asylum policy and an effective external border management are not yet finalised. i also do not share the view that the european parliament should order states to grant asylum seekers faster access to the labour market than the current directive allows. because that's something that states can do today, but they shouldn't be told to do.
in writing. the commission notes that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality, as set out in article 108 (3) tfeu, to the principle of equal treatment for men and women. stresses that most member states do not meet the quotas for the reception of refugees; calls on the commission and the member states to start applying the relevant agreements as soon as possible and to speed up the process of accepting and resettling refugees; i remain convinced that quotas are a step in the wrong direction and do not contribute to creating an atmosphere of calm across european society. the resolution acknowledges that the refugee crisis is primarily a humanitarian crisis, caused inter alia by the destabilisation of the eu's neighbouring countries, but fails to identify the main culprits (nato, and in particular the us). i believe that the search for a solution to this situation is impossible without subjecting the actions that led to it to a critical analysis.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the unification of eu asylum policy (there is an urgent need to establish a common asylum system) or with the call to adopt a permanent mechanism for the redistribution of migrants (there is a need to establish as soon as possible a permanent mechanism for their relocation within all member states).
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i and my group disagree with some of the points that were not taken up in the separate vote. for example, the requirement to allocate 25% of cohesion policy resources to the european social fund is an issue related to the establishment of the eu budget and should not be addressed in such a report. i also find some of the proposals concerning access to the labour market for asylum seekers controversial. the major problem that has affected my approach to the report is the willingness of some political groups to include in similar reports areas that are not directly related to their focus, which i consider to be a very bad practice.
‒ managing the refugee crisis is one of the main challenges facing the european union and its society today. the situation can only be addressed by a comprehensive approach, and i therefore regard the report adopted by the european parliament today as another important element in the mosaic of an integrated solution. it is essential that the challenges posed by migratory pressures in the fields of employment, education, social and health care become a source of economic and cultural development for our society. as a social democrat, i decided to support a new european agenda on migration to address the challenges of managing the unprecedented influx of people coming to the eu. this can only be achieved if the external and internal policies of the union and its member states are synergistic and complementary. i also strongly support the strengthening of the european social fund, which could help with the integration of refugees into society and their employment. in my view, this is the right way forward, and it should help to manage the situation in all eu member states. on the contrary, the cuts in the funds mentioned above or the punishment of malus and similar nonsense would only damage pan-european growth and significantly limit the management of the situation.
in writing. i could not support the resolution on the social integration and labour market of refugees. i agree that refugees need to be integrated into our societies. in this integration, we must learn from the mistakes of the past and avoid the creation of new ghettos and social exclusion leading to radicalisation. the resolution is based on the correct assumption that integration is most effective through the labour market. however, as often happens with non-binding parliamentary resolutions, paragraphs creep into the meaningful text that disqualify the text as a whole. the resolution calls for a shortening of the period after which asylum seekers whose applications have not been decided on are to have access to the labour market. our ppe group voted unsuccessfully against this point and we succeeded in closely enforcing at least the omission of the explicit call after the six-month period. i do not consider such challenges to be fortunate, we should leave the possible reductions to the member states, as the current legislation allows. i also cannot support calls for a targeted increase in the budgetary allocation for the european social fund. budgetary changes require a thorough expert assessment by the european commission, not politically motivated calls. the biggest problem with the text is that it expresses support for a proposal for a permanent system of relocation of asylum seekers. this question clearly has no place in the debate about refugee access to the labour market. unfortunately, we were unable to remove it from the text.
in writing. in today's vote on the report entitled 'refugees: social inclusion and employment', i abstained as i do not think it is effective to discuss the nature of the eu asylum system in a report on the integration and employment of refugees. i am aware that the debate on the common asylum system in particular touches on the problem of the social integration of refugees, but i believe that there are important parameters for a future common asylum system. but we're not talking about those here. as for the idea of a common asylum system, i do not reject it a priori. it should be noted, first of all, that the common asylum system in no way deprives the member states of their competence to assess applications for asylum. no one's proposing that change. the debate is only about the rules under which asylum applications will be assessed, but these will still be assessed by the member states' authorities, not by any of the eu institutions or agencies. i therefore believe that this debate is legitimate, it is supported by article 78 of the tfeu, which states that 'the union shall develop a common policy on asylum' and as a result it can contribute to reducing some of the so-called 'pull factors' that we are now seeing within the eu. however, the exact parameters of this envisaged system need to be discussed further.
in writing. ‒ while i fully agree that participation in the labour market and social inclusion are the best ways to ensure long-term integration for migrants, i voted against the report on the social inclusion and integration into the labour market of refugees. this is because it contains certain elements that are counterproductive to our efforts to achieving a coherent migration strategy for europe. in fact, agreeing on a permanent relocation mechanism and a common asylum system makes little sense so long as we have not yet agreed on the larger common approach to migration and organised our external borders effectively, and it might even jeopardise our efforts to find compromises on controversial issues.
in writing. i could not support the own-initiative report on the integration of refugees in the eu, even though it puts pressure on member states to introduce and enforce redistribution systems. but in my opinion, they will not solve the refugee crisis. these proposals are outdated and do not reflect the current evolution of the migration situation in the eu.
in writing. ‒ trade is clearly an important eu tool for ensuring cooperation with third countries and promoting democratic values in them, whether on environmental issues, human rights or corporate responsibility. trade has great potential for the eu, but unfortunately it is still not being fully exploited. i therefore supported the report which analyses the progress made by the commission in implementing such standards and makes new recommendations. the aim is to strike a balance between economic diplomacy and the removal of trade barriers, to ensure greater cooperation between development aid and trade policy, to promote binding measures that ensure that firms pay taxes in the country where they do business. at the same time, the report points out that trade policy deserves to be an eu priority.
in writing. i was very happy to support the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility. i think it is important that the european parliament really controls the commission's activities (especially the current ones) and ensures that the commission is still acting as it should. in particular, i appreciated that the report recognised that universal access to public goods such as water, health and education are essential elements that demonstrate a member state's capacity to respect human rights and to ensure social justice. the commission should realise that this is the way to make eu citizens' lives better, not its directives and quotas.
in writing. i supported the report which rightly emphasises the importance of trade and foreign investment as important tools for achieving economic growth, sustainable development and the protection of human rights. i am convinced that well-designed trade and direct investment regimes increase prosperity in poorer countries and that increased prosperity is a prerequisite for better protection of human and social rights and workers' rights and better protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the biggest player in world trade. that is why i consider it very important that in the conclusion of trade agreements, a strong emphasis is placed on social and environmental standards, human rights and also corporate social responsibility. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it very important that the commission ensures that development policy is consistent with its trade strategy, which includes fair taxation. i therefore supported the provision that taxes should be paid where economic activity takes place. while foreign investment and trade generally lead to economic growth and increased prosperity, this does not mean that the same thing happens to improvements in human rights protection and the overall environment. deforestation and forest degradation also show a negative relationship between these two factors. there is therefore a need for multinational enterprises and groups to play a much greater role and provide positive incentives in the field of protection. in particular, they should ensure, for example, responsible logging, felling and commodity sourcing, as well as social justice. i voted to put far greater responsibility on the shoulders of the companies in this respect. the commission must become more stringent and ensure that the principles laid down in the un framework are applied consistently.
in writing. as a social democrat, i consider this report to be very important, as some of the basic principles of the functioning of european society are often forgotten nowadays, namely human rights, corporate social responsibility and, last but not least, social and environmental standards. it is essential that our high european standards are taken into account today, when the european union is negotiating several important international agreements. it is necessary that rules for the protection of european workers are also firmly anchored in international treaties. last but not least, i consider it essential that the report adopted by the european parliament calls for greater transparency in the negotiation of international agreements, such as the ttip agreement.
in writing. as tragedy such as the rana plaza factory collapse in bangladesh has shown, european consumers are also closely concerned by the working and social conditions of workers in third countries. compliance with basic social, labour and environmental standards should therefore be guaranteed in all trade agreements concluded by the european union. this applies not only to companies in third countries but also, and in particular, to companies established in the european union but operating outside its borders. such actions can contribute to achieving sustainable development or to combating forced and child labour, which is why i was happy to support this report.
in writing. ‒ trade is an important tool for the european union to promote democratic values in third countries, such as environmental and social standards, human rights and corporate responsibility. this is why i voted in favour of this report, which analyses the progress achieved by the commission in implementing these standards and provides new recommendations. the recommendations aim to reflect the right balance between economic diplomacy and diminishing trade barriers, by ensuring greater coordination between development aid and trade policy, promoting binding measures to ensure that companies pay taxes where their economic activity takes place, and advocating that this issue is given priority on the agenda.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome the new strategy proposed by the commission entitled ‘trade for all – towards a more responsible trade and investment policy’. therefore, i also support this resolution. one of our biggest future challenges will be to keep the eu’s position as a global trade player; for that, it is necessary to have solid trade agreements with third countries, which would bring more jobs and growth. we have to waive protectionist practices and support free trade outside of the european union just as we have done within it.
in writing. ‒ if the european union is to maintain its economic importance in the face of competition from the rest of the world, it needs a truly effective, comprehensive and progressive trade strategy. that is why i voted in favour of a resolution calling for greater participation and accountability of all stakeholders involved in trade and greater transparency, in particular to win the trust of citizens. the requirement of regular annual reports on implementation is certainly important, as it will enable the eu to achieve the best possible strategy in the light of current requirements.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the european parliament's resolution on a new and innovative future strategy for trade and investment. the business is not self-sufficient. it is intended to contribute to social, economic, political prosperity and stability, to sustainable economic development, to social progress, to cultural diversity and to the creation of quality jobs. it's supposed to raise living standards, and the resolution didn't mention that. moreover, it did not indicate that more and more citizens were openly criticizing and even rejecting free trade agreements. they do not address all these issues and have a profound and long-term impact on the national and regional development of trading partners, on their ability to develop their own production capacities in order to guarantee long-term sustainable economic performance contributing to economic growth and the prosperity of citizens. this includes the current negative impacts on macroeconomic and microeconomic relationships and conditions that very often cause disruption of smes, job losses, the relocation of entire sectors to third countries, environmental and social dumping, the disappearance of family farms and medium-sized enterprises, the limitation of access to basic public services, the limitation of cultural diversity, as well as the exacerbation of negative trends such as climate change and persistent poverty, both in developing and in developed countries.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report calls for a meaningless assessment of the impact of trade agreements on 'decent jobs created'. i'm for free trade, not for creating excuses to restrict it.
in writing. i supported the report, which, among other things, welcomed the commission's reference to the efforts of the new investment court system to replace the criticised and unpredictable private arbitration, while stressing that this investment court system must be in line with the eu legal order, in particular the jurisdiction of courts in the eu, and in particular with eu competition law. in this context, i support the commission's approach to ttip so far, including the fact that it has increased transparency and openness at all stages of trade negotiations.
in writing. ‒ an innovative approach has played and will continue to play a key role in the eu economy in the future. we must realise that the importance of the eu economy in the world as a whole will decline in the future, even though it is currently the richest economic area in the world. the center of wealth creation is shifting eastward to the asia-pacific region, which is a trend that i don't think we can stop, but we have to respond to it in the right way. this is why debates on future innovative strategies are so important for trade and investment. as a socially-democratically minded politician, i believe that the system for protecting the union's trade needs to be modernised, also in view of the fact that china will continue to seek to be granted market economy status. we must not allow jobs to be threatened and unemployment to rise, leading to a fall in european exports or a disproportionate increase in imports, especially in certain sectors. on the contrary, it is necessary to go a step further and define trade and investment agreements in such a way as to promote sustainable development and not to allow a decline in labour and social standards, including environmental sustainability.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution, to which i also contributed, on the european union's trade strategy. in it, the european parliament recalls the role of the european union in the world and stresses that trading in a sustainable and responsible way is the most powerful tool for promoting european interests and values abroad. eu citizens are often concerned about the potential impact of trade agreements that europe negotiates with its trading partners. in this resolution, for example, the european parliament stresses the need for greater transparency in negotiations or for a comprehensive analysis of the impact of the european union's trade initiatives and asks the european commission to provide data on the impact of trade agreements already concluded, in particular on small and medium-sized enterprises, the environment, etc. the european parliament also touches on non-eu countries in this resolution, mentioning the importance of new markets for european agricultural production, but also calling for development aid. funds such as the european development fund (edf) are intended to support, for example, the fight against poverty or to tackle the causes behind migration. the resolution also talks about cooperation with specific countries, and in the resolution i supported the call for the european commission to start negotiations on an investment agreement with taiwan immediately.
in writing. ‒ while the eu is the wealthiest economy worldwide, an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking trade and investment strategy is of vital importance if we want to keep our economic importance in the face of the growing competition from other continents. this is why i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for more transparency, engagement and accountability towards all stakeholders involved in the trade, namely to regain the confidence of citizens regarding the benefits of international trade. i particularly agree with the need for regular updates and annual implementation reports that will allow us to achieve the best possible strategy.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this report because i am aware that an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking trade and investment strategy is of crucial importance for the european union. at the same time, i am aware of the concerns that the citizens have. many european citizens associate globalisation with job losses. i therefore believe that trade policy in the 21st century must respond to citizens' concerns. we therefore need more transparency, involvement and accountability with all stakeholders. in my view, given the rapidly changing global business environment, the trade strategy should be regularly updated and the commission should report in detail on its implementation on an annual basis, in order to allow european citizens to have a look.
in writing. ‒ it is unacceptable that practices like human trafficking still exist in the modern world; they have to be fought against. thus, such motions as in this report have to be supported. it is our duty to not only protect our citizens, but also to promote human rights and to fight inhuman treatment all over the world. our political and economic capacity is the tool.
in writing. - human trafficking in any form is undeniably a reprehensible business and essentially a form of modern slavery that has no place not only in today's europe but in the world in general. unfortunately, it's a growing industry, with women being the primary victims of sexual abuse, and men being used for forced labor. in addition, in 2014, more than 10,000 unaccompanied minors and refugees went missing in europe, and we don't know if they also ended up in the hands of traffickers. i therefore voted in favour of the report, which calls for greater cooperation between member states in combating trafficking in human beings as part of the union's external relations. the key to fighting this is to recognise that trafficking in human beings takes many forms and that all must be actively combated. we also need to focus on the rights of victims and to promote the eu strategy on this issue.
in writing. - i got held up. the report deplores human trafficking and stresses the importance of combating traffickers and smugglers. i don't consider this report to be helpful or harmful.
in writing. i supported the report, which i share, inter alia, in calling for the eu and the member states to make the necessary efforts to combat forced labour in eu industrial enterprises abroad and in relation to third countries, by applying and enforcing labour standards and supporting governments in adopting labour legislation ensuring minimum standards of protection for workers, including foreign workers, and to ensure that european companies operating in third countries comply with these standards. i believe it is important that governments enforce labour laws and guarantee equal rights to all workers regardless of their nationality or origin and that they pay due attention to eradicating corruption.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's report on global trends in human trafficking. trafficking in human beings is a modern form of slavery and a serious crime that constitutes one of the worst violations of human rights. it is tragic that in the 21st century, human trafficking is still a lucrative business worldwide, linked to other crimes, such as money laundering. unfortunately, this is facilitated by the absence or lack of legislation in many countries of the world. the revenues from human trafficking are thus returned to the financial systems. the report offers an overview of the different forms of trafficking in human beings, but also suggests concrete forms of cooperation to combat it at regional and international level. eu policy in building relations with third countries, e.g. exchange of best practices, training of police and humanitarian workers on how to communicate with victims, etc. at eu level, a position of coordinator for the fight against trafficking in human beings has been created to improve coordination between eu institutions, agencies and member states with third countries and international actors. the report focuses separately on trafficking in migrants, who are among the least vulnerable groups, especially women and children. europol has warned that more than 10,000 unaccompanied refugees and migrant children have disappeared in europe.
in writing. ‒ human trafficking is a growing industry that constitutes one of the worst forms of human rights violations. women are mostly victims of sexual exploitation, men are forced into labour, and in 2014, more than 10 000 unaccompanied refugee and migrant children disappeared in europe. this is why i voted in favour of the report on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the eu’s external relations, which suggests concrete ways to counter this crime. one key element is to understand that human trafficking encompasses many types of exploitation beyond sexual exploitation. the report also stresses the need to focus on victims’ rights including the right to remedy, to increase cooperation against this crime at regional and international level and to promote an eu strategy on this issue with a more targeted external dimension.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the report presented, although i condemn and expressly reject human trafficking. in my opinion and in the opinion of many experts, human trafficking can be considered modern slavery and represents one of the worst violations of human rights. recognising that trafficking in human beings is a transnational crime of a global nature, i am convinced of the need for a unified approach to the internal and external dimensions of eu policies to combat trafficking in human beings. in particular, the safety of victims of trafficking in human beings who testify against traffickers in court must be ensured. but this report explicitly supports the redistribution of refugees on the basis of permanent quota systems, which i have long opposed.
madam president, allow me to emphasize three points which are relevant to this report, for which i would also like to thank mr olbrycht and his colleague. on the one hand, this concerns the use of the erasmus and creative europe programmes, where we repeatedly ask that the processes be simplified to make these programmes more accessible to those who need them, and in particular in this case, young people and non-profit organisations, who see significant barriers to use. the second point is the repeated request to increase the limit for investment in cultural heritage from 5 million to 10 million, as is the case with unesco sites. this is again a repeated request in this area to leave it to the member states to decide how they will ultimately apply the limits in their programmes, but not to limit the possibilities of investments above eur 5 million as is the case today. the revision of the multiannual financial framework is a good opportunity to make this appeal.
madam president, i think the debate today illustrates how seriously parliament is taking the problem of tax gaps and the fairness of tax systems. we have good reasons for that. i am pleased that the commission sees things in a very similar way and also that the key player in this debate, the european council, is starting to take decisions. we should be proud of the result. in the last few months we have approved many measures, such as exchange of tax rulings, country—by—country reporting and the anti—tax avoidance directive, and we will have others: the anti-money laundering directive, automatic exchange of information, and so on. so parliament is playing a very important role – and we are pleased about that – through the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect and through the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i think this report includes some very important points. i very much appreciate the stress on the improvement of the function of the code of conduct group, as well as the clear link between trade policy and tax policy. but some measures, in my opinion, go beyond a good trade—off between efficiency, cost and fairness. i think we should pay more attention to the difference between tax evasion and tax avoidance. public and private interests should be balanced better in whistle-blowers legislation, and in some other respects we should consider the cost of the measures proposed. but otherwise i believe that parliament will keep playing a very important role in improving the tax system in the european union and also globally.
ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that we will be able to devote tomorrow's debate to the text on the european border and coast guard. allow me to address the most discussed article. it's the 18th. it concerns a situation at the external borders which requires an immediate solution. for example, when there is an excessive pressure of migrants at the external borders. when a member state is unable to cope with a situation and the functioning of the schengen area may be threatened, it shall act as a border or maritime surveillance team. but here we are faced with the objection that the european union may threaten the sovereignty of such member states. for decades, i lived in a land surrounded by barbed wire. the border guards of communist czechoslovakia mercilessly shot anyone who tried to cross the border without permission. only exceptionally did the state grant a citizen an exit visa to the then non-communist world. just for three weeks. you could officially buy a trip for only $120. it was humiliating. corruption was rampant. state bank and the ministry of interior. it was schengen that made us free, free-breathing european citizens. schengen was the greatest achievement we have achieved since the fall of communism. that is why i prefer a common eu approach to its defence. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i've thought about it for a long time, i think we can't allow this situation. we must act long enough to convince a country that wants to declare obedience to abide by it. it's really a matter of if somebody doesn't comply with the aid that's offered and the country itself can't do that, then there really has to be a directive.
i see the european border and coast guard as a key eu tool for controlling our common borders, which the eu has long lacked. recent history has shown us that without this common guard, the schengen area cannot function and thus bring benefits to european citizens. however, i do not see the added value of eu guards in ensuring safe borders and effective migration management, but also in fighting terrorism or serious cross-border crime more effectively.
madam president, i think i should repeat myself because i have had excellent speakers before me, such as mrs grässle, mrs sander and mr sarvamaa, who have said virtually everything i wanted to say. however, commissioner, i would like to stress that transparency and integrity are our shared priority. yours and the ep's. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we have independent control bodies to ensure that potential fraud and corruption are investigated objectively. olaf is one such body and, in order to ensure its maximum impartiality, it is necessary to ensure that its supervisory body is also genuinely independent and able to intervene in the event of any suspicion arising within olaf itself. that is why the role of the olaf supervisory committee and its secretariat is important to us. it must be completely independent of olaf's management in order to guarantee this independence and transparency.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the prime minister on his first presidency and wish him the very best. prime minister, i am sure you can do very well. i hope you will do better than the czechs in 2009. seven years on, you can do better than we have done. so i wholeheartedly support the slovak presidency. for quite a few years in this chamber we have heard from different prime ministers and presidents that we are at a crossroads and that we are in a dramatic and complicated situation. we have heard some strong words. we have heard that we need reforms. you have deviated to some extent from that and i do appreciate it, for one thing because we are no longer at the crossroads. we have left the crossroads and we have come to a political dead end. we need to break that dead end, and that is something we should recognise. slovakia, for me, is a success story as a member of the european union. in the past 12 years, you have managed to steer the country from being an average country, averagely developed, to a real success story and much more than that. this is something that we need to recognise and applaud. i was going to ask you to remind us, on the basis of that story, about what the founding values and reasons for the european communities were. you have done that and i do appreciate it. let us have the courage to remind ourselves, and to remind our nations and our people, what the story really is: what is history, what is the future and, of course, what the bottlenecks and problems are that we face. you managed to steer your country from an average situation to success. i know that a few days ago you said you feared high expectations – well, i will not reassure you on that point, as we do have high expectations. we have expectations that you will manage to steer the european union out of crisis. that is something that needs to be done, not because of us, the meps, not because of our vague dreams, but because of the citizens who are tired of the european union as it stands today. we have heard numerous comments from the council in recent days, blaming and shaming, and i think that is precisely the worst message that we can send. i am glad we will not continue on that path because the european institutions as such – jointly, as you have said – have to tackle the challenges which are in front of us. we have a choice about the european union of tomorrow. it can either be a european union with all the success – and i do agree with you that it is a marvellous and unique project – but also, with all the deficiencies that we have, incapable of delivering, or we can deliver on issues like the crises, the real bottlenecks, the issues that concern citizens. those issues are the migration crisis, the internal market, which you have spoken about, etcetera. i think this is the european union that we want. this is the choice that we should make. i will make two final remarks. we speak of reforms. we met many years ago for the first time, in my office, and i knew that you were a person who could deliver. here are two ideas. one is: why not open the deliberations of the european council to the public? sometimes even prime ministers do not know what was agreed the day before. make it transparent. provide for confidence. the second idea is: why not have a programme of revision of the secondary acquis? do away with all the issues that we should not be focusing on, and let us take on the big issues, the ones where there is added european value. you have our support and we hope that we will jointly succeed. all the best once again.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, the historic first presidency of the slovak republic could not have come at a worse time. slovakia now has to deal primarily with a potential brexit at a time when we are also facing a migration crisis that is costing us a lot of effort. europe faces so many other challenges, but they are all too much for us to take. there is no time to be blurring the economic differences between countries of the east and west, north and south, old and new member states. we live in a time that is deepening old dividing lines, a time when we should be working to erase them and face the challenges of the new millennium together. i hope that thanks to the slovak presidency, everyone will understand that the visegrad countries are not europe's enemies. we too want to live in peace and prosperity. but we have our own political specifics and we ask that they be respected. we're not being uncooperative. we're not irresponsible loners. we're not the ones who walk away when the weather's bad. since 2004, we have been sitting here with you, looking for solutions to europe's problems. ladies and gentlemen, we all want the same things, but sometimes we don't seem to speak the same language. i would like you to know at this point that the countries of central and eastern europe refuse to be treated as second-class countries, and i sincerely hope that the slovak presidency will prove to you that we are not. and one final note, prime minister. if you talk about a positive and beneficial agenda, that you want to put the citizens of the european union at the heart of the agenda, forget about ttip. it is an opaque, lobbying and nonsensical agreement that will bring no positive benefits to any of the citizens of the european union. you will be wasting time that we need to solve the really serious problems of the european union.
mr fico, i have high hopes for your presidency of the european council. you said that the european union should take into account people's concerns about migration, the impact of migration on national identity, on the security of citizens. and your government had the courage to vote against the quotas for the redistribution of migrants and even had the courage to challenge the decisions of the european union in the european court of justice. and i very much hope that you, as president of the european council, will oppose what is dangerously close, namely the permanent mechanism for the redistribution of people across europe. you also said that you would moderate the eu's break with britain to everyone's satisfaction. that's going to be difficult, i think, because a lot of people here are driven by irrational hatred and will not be satisfied until britain is somehow stamped into the ground. but i believe in your rational approach and i would like to recall here the 24 years old experience of the separation, the divorce of czechoslovakia. i think it's a very similar situation. the united kingdom has decided to leave the european union, and similarly, 24 years ago, slovakia decided to leave czechoslovakia. and everyone was sane back then. the day after czechoslovakia split, we agreed to free trade, we agreed to visa-free travel, and relations between our nations after that split were, and still are, better than they've ever been. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i consider myself a very rational and moderate person, i am a supporter of chexite, i am a supporter of having a europe of free nations, who will trade freely, cooperate, no one will try to overrule anyone. but i certainly don't consider myself a populist or an extremist. so i think mr fice's words were certainly not aimed at us, and i really do hope for the good sense of his presidency.
the question posed by the blue card. i want to ask you, do you know the difference between a dictatorship and a democracy? second quick question, do you know the difference between prison and freedom and have you ever been to prison or are you going to see it? and my third question, do you know that slovakia was never behind the berlin wall and do you know where slovakia really lies?
mr. chairman, i'm not going to get all political. i am very pleased to welcome the slovak presidency here. i am glad to welcome prime minister fico not only as a politician but also as a friend, a true friend and a true democrat, smer as the sister party of my own social democracy in the czech republic and slovakia as my brother country. and unlike my colleague, mach, i regret that we once parted ways from the common state. as far as the programme goes, of course you have to deal with the tough stuff, brexit, all the possible crises, but i value other things entirely. i appreciate the wisdom of the slovak presidency in that you are going to address those issues, especially in the area of health and the environment, which could very soon cause a much worse crisis than we are seeing today. antimicrobial resistance, endocrine disruptors, it's great that you remember that. if we need a change, we need a change in communication. we need openness, the truth, less arrogance. you can do it, mr. prime minister, teach it to everyone else in the council. and finally, because i only have one minute, one personal request. robert, i wish you good health. hold it right there!
mr president, first of all, let me wish our slovak friends a successful first presidency. i am sure that slovakia can cope with this difficult role. we may hear less of the high-sounding words we are used to hearing in this context, but much more of the practical solutions and results. among several specific priorities, i would like to highlight briefly the slovak presidency's focus on exploiting the potential of the single market, on fair rules for its functioning and on a high level of consumer protection, irrespective of their nationality. i think that the slovak presidency will be able to draw on its own experience in this matter. i also believe that we can make joint progress on the european accessibility act, which will make it easier for people with disabilities to access goods and services. i welcome the fact that the presidency is also planning concrete initiatives to combat unfair trading practices in the food sector, as called for by the european parliament in its recent report. i wish you, mr. president, much patience and look forward to working with you. good luck with that.
mr president, i would like to wish my slovak colleagues a successful presidency of the european union. the priorities chosen by bratislava are very well chosen. they capture both the union's key development trends and its challenges. i want to draw attention to a problem that is becoming more and more visible and more and more dangerous today, namely the position of small countries in the union. so far, it seems that in dealing with brexit-related issues, the task of the presidency will be to keep the mood while the substantive issues are dealt with by the major states and the commission. when i bring this up, i'm not talking about vanity. two years ago, only a few political scientists warned that the european union was becoming more and more like a classic international organisation with a geopolitical berlin-paris axis, to whose interests the others must conform. today, even large sections of the public in small countries feel that their membership is secondary and that the union's prestige is declining. i'm not exaggerating the eu and the western balkans held a summit in paris on monday. where was the representative of the slovak presidency? slovakia has nothing to say about the problem? that's not possible. i wish you good health, too, my dear robert.
in writing. this recommendation approves the protocol setting out the financial and technical rules to allow azerbaijan to participate in certain eu programmes for third countries. i supported the protocol, which aims to strengthen cooperation within the eastern partnership, as it is a good method of cooperation in the areas of civil society and could also help to anchor democratic principles in the country. the eu has already signed similar protocols with armenia, georgia, moldova and ukraine. cooperation opens up new opportunities for azerbaijani students and researchers in various eu programmes. the alde group will continue to engage and monitor the situation in this area, and we expect further improvements in the area of human rights and democracy. azerbaijan is an important energy partner of the eu, but civil society and organisations continue to face many difficulties.
in writing. azerbaijan is one of the caspian countries with significant oil and natural gas deposits. these deposits have been exploited since the end of the 19th century. at present, the export of oil and natural gas provides a substantial part of the income of this caucasian state. in the recent past, the eu has attempted to prepare a project for a gas pipeline from the caspian sea region through turkey and the balkans. unfortunately, this platonic effort to prepare a project called nabucco ended in failure. the basic prerequisite for the construction of the pipeline is to ensure sufficient natural gas, which the eu politicians of that time failed to do. on the one hand, the sanctions against iran, on the other hand, the lack of resource capacity in azerbaijan (about 1/3 of the total planned capacity). the economic crisis of the late 1990s and the subsequent recession did not create favourable conditions for the project. azerbaijan has been at war with armenia for many years (a territorial dispute over nagorno-karabakh), but its relationship with turkey is smooth. on the contrary, relations with iran have always been marked by a certain nervousness, given that a significant azerbaijani minority lives just beyond the common border. the elections in azerbaijan can be considered democratic in the asian context, in the eu context, reservations are regularly made about the electoral procedure and the implementation itself. i support the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership agreement, even with these limits in mind.
in writing. i was very pleased to support the resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of azerbaijan, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the general principles for the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes. the eu-azerbaijan partnership and cooperation agreement entered into force on 1 july 1999. since 2010, the eu and azerbaijan have been negotiating a new, better-quality contractual relationship, which is one of the objectives of the eastern partnership, of which azerbaijan is a member. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has benefited from the aid. in the meantime, the visa facilitation and readmission agreements entered into force on 1 september 2014. azerbaijan is also an important energy partner of the eu, but the importance of the eu-azerbaijan relationship is not limited to energy security. the importance of this partnership should be seen in the context of all aspects of the cooperation envisaged in the eastern partnership. the framework agreement in question should aim to promote cooperation and contacts between people, to the benefit of society as a whole.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report which marks the conclusion of a protocol to the eu-azerbaijan partnership and cooperation agreement. this agreement allows azerbaijan to participate in selected eu projects. this is based on the council decision of 5 march 2007 in which the council expressed its support for the general approach expressed in the european commission communication of 4 december 2006, which allows for the participation of partner countries under the european neighbourhood policy in community agencies and programmes, on the basis of results achieved and where the legal basis allows it. these are projects for which azerbaijan would contribute financially. the specific conditions for the implementation of projects and their supervision will be the subject of agreements between the competent authorities. i supported this report.
‒ the partnership agreement between azerbaijan and the european union has been in force since 1999, and since then negotiations on improving these contractual relations have been conducted with varying success. the negotiations shall include the gradual opening-up of access to certain union programmes. azerbaijan is a member of the eastern partnership and an important energy partner for europe, but this does not guarantee it any special and more favourable conditions. as a social democrat, i have of course many reservations about the regime in azerbaijan and it is precisely in similar agreements that i see the possibility of at least having a more constructive debate on the fundamental values on which eu relations with third countries should be based, and which of course include respect for human rights and the rule of law, by partnering and seeking common interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of laying down financial and technical rules enabling azerbaijan to participate in certain eu programmes open to third countries. this will open new ways for azerbaijani students and researchers to participate in various eu programmes, and thus foster people-to-people contact between azerbaijanis and europeans. azerbaijan is also an important energy partner for the eu, a partnership which this protocol will further cement. most importantly however, in the light of the continuing difficulties encountered by civil society in azerbaijan, i hope that this will promote cooperation and dialogue regarding the rule of law, human rights and democracy in the framework of the eastern partnership that still need to improve significantly in the country.
in writing. - i voted against it. while i agree that the surplus of the eu budget for 2015 should reduce member states' contributions to the eu budget for the following year, i do not agree that the european parliament should urge member states to use the surplus returned to finance the refugee crisis. the eu is to return the money to the member states without any additional conditions or requirements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending budget no 2/2016, in order to include the surplus from the 2015 financial year into the 2016 budget. this surplus should be used to deal with the financing needs of the union, especially in the context of payment shortages, which has been a recurring problem at eu level. i also believe that member states should use this opportunity to honour their pledges in relation to the refugee crisis and to match the union contribution to the two dedicated union trust funds, the africa trust fund and the madad trust fund on the syrian crisis, which are still lacking the necessary funds.
in writing. ‒ today's report from the imco committee is a very important topic, and that is cybersecurity. we live in a digitalised age and technology is developing so fast that society is unable to respond adequately and in a timely manner to new challenges. the so-called hacker attacks and their ingenuity are escalating all the time. i agree that prevention and protective measures are more than adequate. i supported the report, albeit with the caveat that i hope that increased security measures will not lead to the restriction and censorship of the internet as a common means of everyday communication nowadays. we need to find a balanced approach that protects information technology users while not restricting freedom of expression and the right to information.
in writing. i supported the agreement reached by the ep and the council because i consider the resilience and stability of network and information systems to be a fundamental prerequisite for the completion of the digital single market and the smooth functioning of the internal market. existing capacities and mechanisms for ensuring network and information security are unable to keep pace with the rapidly changing nature of threats and to guarantee a common high level of protection in all member states. it should also be noted that, despite the initiatives taken, the level of capacity and preparedness varies widely between member states and there is a fragmentation of approaches across the eu. the eu currently lacks an effective mechanism for effective cooperation and reliable information sharing on risks and breaches of network and information security between member states. as a result, there is insufficient protection against security incidents across the eu. it is also possible that barriers to the internal market and the associated compliance costs may arise for undertakings operating in more than one member state.
in writing. i supported the resulting network and information security directive, which aims at a secure and trusted digital environment across the eu. the directive is the first step towards creating eu-wide measures to counter cyberattacks. they are among the biggest online threats in the global world and their number is growing, therefore there is a need for closer cooperation between member states in the field of network and information security in the first place. i consider it particularly important to establish a network of national cybersecurity incident response teams.
in writing. i was very happy to support the directive on measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security in the union. this directive aims to ensure a high level of security in the european digital area. there is currently no common eu mechanism for effective cooperation in cases of breaches of security networks and information between member states. the new legislation should change this and guarantee security in this area, which is so crucial today. in the future, all member states should be equipped both technically and organisationally to prevent incidents that threaten to disrupt the functioning of entire businesses, public institutions, information servers, internet banking or misuse of eu citizens' personal data. today, at a time when information warfare is more powerful than ground warfare, at a time when russia is using propaganda as one of its most powerful weapons, at a time when the internet is the most powerful tool of terrorism, it is in my view essential to ensure adequate and uniform protection in the area on which the functioning of our entire society is built.
in writing. ‒ while the digitisation of our common economy is bringing unequalled new opportunities, it is essential that we protect its critical infrastructure such as energy, transport, banks, financial markets and health from security incidents and cybercrime. this is why i voted in favour of this report, which sets out measures to achieve a high, coordinated and common level of security of networks and information systems within the eu. it will improve the resilience and stability of network and information systems essential to the smooth functioning of the internal market, and will also increase the trust in and modernisation of ict that are necessary to guarantee the success of the digital single market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal on energy efficiency labelling following the european commission's decision to update the legislation in this area. the original a to c scale, indicating the energy efficiency of appliances mainly white goods (refrigerators, freezers, etc.), needed to be reclassified due to the increase in products with better efficiency and the subsequent existence of a+, a++ or a+++ categories. given the evidence that this labelling is already confusing consumers and discouraging them from buying the most energy-efficient products, i was in favour of modifying the scale to now label products from a to g. the aim of this labelling is to encourage consumers to purchase energy-efficient products, which are therefore less harmful to the environment. accurate, clear and comparable energy consumption information anywhere in the eu is therefore crucial. i also agree with stricter monitoring of compliance with labelling rules and better cooperation and exchange of information in this area.
in writing. energy labels are a very interesting marketing ploy these days, but unfortunately, they're losing their effectiveness. as the energy consumption of individual appliances is reduced, the original scale becomes less clear and the simplicity of the whole marking is lost. consumers are logically asking what could be better than an a-rated device. it's not a secret to the experts that it could be a+, a++, a+++, etc. the fact that the labeling needs to change is obvious to almost everyone, progress cannot be stopped. the high-end appliances of 20 years ago may not be the high-end of today. the question, of course, is whether the period of category changes (shifts) should be 10 years or more or less. this does not change the fact that it is appropriate to simply indicate the degree of economy or lack of economy of new appliances. the form of a regulation is clearly appropriate in this case. i believe that the vast majority of meps will support this material as i do. however, the question is whether extremely energy-efficient electrical equipment will actually have a stable low electricity consumption and will be fully functional, even mechanically, after a few years.
in writing. on 6 july 2016, we voted in plenary on the draft regulation establishing a framework for energy labelling. i was the shadow rapporteur on this regulation in the envi committee. in my view, energy labelling of products makes a major contribution to overall energy savings, is one of the essential tools of secondary environmental protection and is an important part of achieving the european energy efficiency target. for example, i have long argued that the circular economy package should be more closely linked to the regulation of ecodesign. this is the only way to achieve the desired change and a comprehensive positive impact on consumer behaviour and thinking, in terms of the purchases of products, their use and their production by the producers themselves. an essential element of the new adaptation, which replaces the system introduced in 2010, is to ensure that the change of label scale is always based on the latest technological advances. so that the best groups can have only the minimum of products, so that manufacturers are properly motivated to innovate. i consider the establishment of a new central european product database to be a great asset, because the information on individual products in the database will be more easily accessible to consumers. i am therefore pleased to have been able to support the rapporteur's proposal and look forward to the further negotiations between the ep and the council, which will finally conclude the process.
in writing. - i voted against it. i am against extending the obligation for businesses to label products with energy labels. the surplus of mandatory information confuses the consumer, i would leave it to the products to indicate what important information they have on the products.
in writing. i supported changes to energy labelling to make it easier for european consumers to find their way when buying electrical appliances. the changes approved will require european manufacturers to return to a scale where the letter a will indicate the most energy-efficient appliances and the letter g, the least. the current system has been assessed as unclear and outdated, with up to 90% of current products falling into category a, and within this category, various eco-friendly products are now distinguished by signs such as a+++ or a+. the new system should thus return to a more logical and clearer breakdown, which will make it easier for consumers to choose.
in writing. ‒ in july 2015, the commission proposed a new regulation on energy labelling to replace directive 2010/30/eu. the proposal restores the original a to g scale for classifying the energy efficiency of products and establishes a mechanism for rescaling. rescaling is needed as many product categories are currently ‘full’. that is why some products, for example most of the so-called white goods, are in a+, a++ or a+++ category. the commission also proposes to create a product database to improve market surveillance. by replacing a directive with a regulation, the commission wishes to simplify the regulatory environment and ensure market rules are applied more consistently across the eu. i support the overall objective of this proposal to simplify the rules for consumers so that they can make an informed choice. i also support the idea of creating an online database which might simplify the process of labelling and comparison of the products for the future. i however believe that suppliers should be given the option of keeping sensitive data on their own servers. i voted in favour of this report.
madam president, i have supported this report because i believe it is important that the coastal border should be properly guarded. i can quite regret that this protection was not agreed upon before the time when it was most needed. 1,500 men and women, that's not a huge force, in my opinion, we would have to invest in a capacity that is many times greater. but i think it's important that at least something has been created that can be the foundation for the future coast guard. i would very much like the union to learn from the certain weaknesses we have seen in the protection of the external borders, and this is only a small foundation, but i firmly believe that it can be built on. that's why i endorsed the report.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing not only the migration crisis and enormous flow of people, but also threats of terrorism and potential hybrid attacks. as these are not burdens of singular states but of the european union as a whole, we have to respond in the same manner. also, it is our common responsibility to protect human rights and prevent people from losing their lives in the mediterranean sea. our group and myself have always advocated for pooling more forces into an efficient border service on external eu border. i fully support the report, as enhancing the work of frontex and bringing it to cooperate with national border management authorities is a necessary step to tackle the aforementioned issues. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text which was the result of a trilogue on the creation of a common european border and coast guard, the first step towards a truly european border management of the eu. building on the foundations of the current frontex, the agency aims to ensure more effective protection of the union's external borders and thus a secure and fully functioning schengen. the regulation defines the powers of the new agency and strengthens the possibilities for guarding the union's borders in cases of illegal crossing, smuggling or trafficking in human beings. the agency's other task is to cooperate in the return of those who do not have the right to asylum in the eu back to third countries. i am glad that the final regulation does not include the possibility of european guard intervention even against the will of the state concerned. after all, border protection is the prerogative of each member state. however, if a country refuses to cooperate with the agency, other countries may decide to temporarily introduce controls at its borders, thus protecting the schengen area.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has approved the creation of a common european border and coast guard, but not by my vote. i did not like the commission's proposal for a lack of competence of the national states and the general lack of clarity on the relationship between the member states and the new entity. the state can, if it doesn't know what to do, ask for help, but it shouldn't be forced. i don't think it's a rational solution for us as independent states to have troops sent to operate on our borders without any possibility of us influencing or controlling them. border and coastguards are a way of dealing with the crisis, but with only 1,500 people, there's not much they can do.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with restricting the right of member states to negotiate with third countries the possibility of returning refugees. it would be avoided by, for example, greece negotiating with syria the return of refugees to syria. on the contrary, we need the states of the union to be able to negotiate such agreements.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the report that has generated the most debate in the plenary. the commission proposal, which is part of the security package for the protection of the external borders, proposes the creation of an international force known as the european border and security guards. i agree with the main idea, which is more than the need to protect the eu's external borders. at the same time, i am convinced that we must do everything we can to preserve the so-called schengen area. security measures will also include the reinforcement of frontex. i abstained in the final vote. i consider that the mandate of this newly created security guard unit is not entirely clear, nor is it clear what action to take if a state does not want such a unit to operate on its territory, that is to say, whether its sovereignty will be affected.
in writing. i supported the compromise text of the proposal on the coastguard, which was agreed by the member states and the ep at the end of june. while the protection of the borders remains the right and duty of each eu member state, the supporting and coordinating role should be taken over by the new border and coastguard agency created from the frontex external border protection agency. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the eu's action plan on the environment, which is to be adopted by the european parliament and the council in june. the approved regulation does not envisage the possibility of european guard intervention against the will of the state concerned, but other eu member states will be able to decide on the temporary introduction of controls at its borders if a state refuses to cooperate with the new agency. i fully support this amendment, as well as the new agency's further task of cooperating in the return of persons not entitled to asylum in the eu back to third countries.
in writing. ‒ i support the final version of the european border and coast guard regulation and am glad that i was able to vote for it in the ep. i especially appreciate the work of our newsman, who brought this report to a successful conclusion in record time. the proposal is such convincing evidence to voters that the union is able to find common solutions in the area of primary concern ensuring security at the external borders. the new agency will be composed of frontex and national authorities. it's a shared responsibility. the states will thus remain fully responsible for the protection of the borders. new union mechanisms will only be introduced at the request of a state or in the event of unmanageable migratory pressures. the agency will reassess the ability of states to deal with border pressures. after assessing the situation, it shall make recommendations to the member state or, where appropriate, adopt a decision defining specific measures. in cases where border control is ineffective and the schengen system is threatened, the council, acting by a qualified majority, may decide to activate the european border guard. it is good that the original proposal, where the commission itself was to decide on intervention at the borders, has been replaced by a qualified council decision. the regulation does not therefore restrict the sovereignty of states in addressing migration. the agency has also increased its flexibility. it has its own budget, staff, and equipment. it also has a new reserve team of 1 500 border guards, which can be deployed within 5 working days.
in writing. ‒ the regulation, which i strongly supported and for which i was the shadow rapporteur in the committee on foreign affairs, aims to substantially improve the current functioning of the protection of the schengen area. with unprecedented pressure on the external borders at a time when the capacity of individual member states at the union's external border may fail, it is imperative to adapt the rules to allow for a rapid response, even in the face of the unprecedented strain europe is currently experiencing. in particular, a european border and coast guard is hereby established. while the name evokes the idea of a transnational body, the epps actually defines two components. it is the european border and coast guard agency (which will be created from the existing frontex agency with rationally extended powers and staff) and the national authorities responsible for border management. they will continue to fulfil their existing duties, but will cooperate more closely with the agency, etc. the procedure is qualitatively new and can be applied when a situation arises where a failure by one member state to protect part of its external border may endanger the functioning of the entire schengen area. in this case, the council may decide to correct the situation even without the request of the member state concerned. in such a case, for example, a so-called 'reserve rapid reaction team' of 1 500 border guards may also be deployed. they are to be released from the member states within five days. schengen must be maintained.
in writing. i supported the establishment of a european border and coast guard as i regard its creation as an important step towards a future better system of protection of the eu's common external borders. the protection of the external borders remains a competence of the member states, but the transformation of frontex into the european border and coast guard agency will strengthen the elements of the common external border management and introduce new possibilities for the use of agency staff directly in a place where the management of the external borders is not adequately performed by a member state and this lack of performance threatens the proper functioning of the schengen area without internal border controls. the migration crisis as a complex problem will not be solved by establishing a common border guard alone. similar attention should be given to other proposals, particularly in the area of asylum legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of establishing a european border and coast guard, which i see as promising first step towards achieving an integrated european border management. this will allow us to preserve the mobility of people and goods inside the schengen space, one of the most visible achievements of european integration, but which has been threatened by the expansion of irregular migration, security threats and the shortcomings of frontex. the ebcg will consist of the european border and coast guard agency as well as of national authorities responsible for border management. this new agency will be given a monitoring and supervisory role, a new mandate for search and rescue operations, and acquire a rapid reserve of 1 500 european border guards and other relevant staff. i am particularly pleased that the agency’s role in return policy is strengthened, and that the necessary safeguards to guarantee that the fundamental rights of both refugees and migrants are fully respected.
in writing. ‒ better external border control will be ensured by the new border and coast guard. however, to end the tragedies of thousands of people who have drowned during the migration crisis, cooperation in rescue operations at sea, which is provided by the european maritime safety agency (emsa), is also needed. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal which specifies the responsibilities of this important agency and defines the possibilities and conditions for cooperation with other agencies. but we must realize that until we get control of the conflict that is forcing people to make such a desperate and dangerous journey to europe, we have not, unfortunately, won.
in writing. on 6 july 2016, at the ep plenary vote in strasbourg, we voted on the draft regulation amending the regulation establishing the european maritime safety agency. the proposal is part of the european commission's legislative package to rebuild and strengthen the frontex agency, now renamed the european border and coast guard. this specific document further extends the cooperation between the various eu agencies involved in maritime and coastal controls, not only in the area of border protection but also in the area of fisheries. although i personally support greater cooperation between european agencies in the protection of the external border, i could not fully support the proposal and abstained. what bothers me about the current concept is a certain lack of confidence in the ability of nation states to solve their own border problems, which is what the proposal is based on. in addition, there is a lack of clear-cut competence and boundaries within which the agencies can operate, and no provision explicitly requiring all stakeholders to respect all human rights. the fact that the report on this regulation was written by a member of the far-right enf group did not help the situation. but in my personal opinion, something needs to be done about the current sad situation, and a joint functional coastguard is a pretty good way to do that. so i couldn't even say no to the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because the czech republic is landlocked and the regulation does not apply to it.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis and the unprecedented influx of refugees has underlined the necessity to enhance our rescue capacities and better protect our coastal lines. this is why i voted in favour of enlarging the mandate of the european maritime safety agency to facilitate cooperation with the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency (efca), in order to improve european cooperation on coastguard functions. it will expand synergies between those three agencies at eu level and provide more efficient and cost-effective support to national authorities carrying out rescue and protection activities.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because the czech republic is landlocked and the regulation does not apply to it.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report that is part of the package of measures proposed by the commission to strengthen the eu's external borders. the report proposes to add to the mandate of the european fisheries control agency an article on cooperation in the activities of the coastguard and then the possibility of cooperation and coordination of the activities of european agencies dealing with the control of the eu's external borders and the competent national authorities of the member states. the european fisheries control agency should have new responsibilities for information sharing and the establishment of a system for the exchange of information between agencies, strengthening union and national capacities as well as capacity sharing. although i agree with the main idea, which is more than the need to protect the eu's external borders, i abstained in the final vote. i believe that the mandate of such a strengthened agency, and in particular the relationship with the sovereignty of the eu member states, is not fully clarified.
in writing. ‒ the european fisheries control agency contributes to the control of fisheries-related activities but cannot currently operate in other maritime operations. the european parliament supported the commission's proposal to add an article on cooperation in the activities of the coastguard to the mandate of the agency. the aim is to strengthen the european union's ability to respond to threats and risks in the maritime domain. coordination of control and prevention at european level should ensure increased awareness and cooperation not only at the level of european agencies but also with all other civil and military actors. the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency must be able to cooperate and to use their operational capacities jointly. i think there is a need now more than ever to focus on the effectiveness of these agencies, and i'm glad to see progress in that direction. the proposal is a response to the european parliament's pilot project on the coordination of european coast guard activities and was approved in the 2016 budget of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the community fisheries control agency, which is an essential measure to avoid the disasters at sea that have increased significantly with the recently expanded migration, to prevent illegal migration and to enhance maritime safety and security. concretely, it will bring the powers and responsibilities of the european fisheries control agency into line with those of the european maritime safety agency and the newly created european border and coast guard agency with regard to their rescuing function. this will allow them to better coordinate their operations at sea and share surveillance information at eu level, and to support local and national authorities through information, equipment, training and coordination.
in writing. on 6 july 2016, we voted in the european parliament's plenary session on a proposal for a regulation amending the regulation as regards the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the supervisory committee within olaf is responsible for monitoring olaf's investigative activities in order to strengthen its independence, and in particular for monitoring developments concerning the application of procedural safeguards and the duration of olaf investigations. unfortunately, over time, several problems with conflict of interest among key staff in this secretariat have emerged, and the much needed independence of olaf has been compromised in the public eye. the need for some changes in the legislation has therefore arisen. in order to separate the management of the secretariat of the supervisory committee from the management of olaf, the document proposed to amend the regulation so that the secretariat of the supervisory committee would in future be provided solely by the european commission and not by olaf as was the case in the past. as this is an amendment designed to ensure greater independence for this very important office, i was in favour.
in writing. - i voted against it. i am opposed to the transfer of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat to the european commission. this will increase the commission's political control over fraud investigations into eu funds.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the committee on budgetary control, i note that after long debates and not a very constructive approach on the part of the political group of the ppe in particular, a compromise text was found on the new rules for the functioning of the secretariat of the supervisory committee for the european anti-fraud office (olaf). it is undeniable that we need effective working relations between olaf and its supervisory committee to enhance the protection of the eu's financial interests. these relations had been severely disrupted in previous years and new structures had to be set up. the secretariat of the supervisory committee will now operate independently of olaf's structures, thus strengthening the independence of the supervisory committee. i also consider it essential that the decision taken will have no impact on the european budget. the secretariat's financial allocation has merely been transferred to the budget of the european commission, within whose structures the secretariat will operate. however, i am of the opinion that the change in structure itself is only a framework for improving relations between the institutions in question, not a solution of their own. i will continue to support any steps that lead to the normalisation of relations between olaf and its supervisory committee.
in writing. i supported the report on strengthening the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat and the related amendment to the existing olaf regulation. the potential risk of conflict of interest and the need to strengthen the independent position of the secretariat of olaf's supervisory body have been the subject of calls from the european parliament to the commission and exchanges of views between the council, parliament, the commission and the director-general of olaf in recent years. where the secretariat is to provide direct support to the work of the supervisory committee, which oversees the proper performance of the investigative function of olaf as a whole, the application of procedural safeguards and the duration of individual fraud investigations, it is in the interest of the proper functioning of the office that the secretariat should act independently and without any conflict of interest. however, the independence of the secretariat is undermined by the unsatisfactory wording of article 15 (8) of the regulation, which provides that the secretariat is to be provided by the office itself. as a result, the director-general decides directly on the promotions and promotions of the staff of the authority's secretariat. a possible conflict of interest between the staff of the secretariat of the supervisory authority and the staff of the olaf management authority is therefore not excluded. the new arrangement is designed to avoid conflicts of interest by strengthening the staff and financial independence of the secretariat. the secretariat will not be provided by the office but by the commission and the budget for the secretariat will be transferred from the olaf budget line to the commission budget. i also welcome the emphasis on the confidentiality of the data processed by secretariat staff.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour the resolution on the secretariat of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the secretariat will now be integrated into the commission’s structure, thus clearly separating it from the committee and its budget that it is mandated to supervise. i believe that this is an essential measure to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee’s secretariat, thus increasing the effectiveness of the supervisory committee as well as the credibility of our institutions.
in writing. on 6 july 2016, we voted in the european parliament's plenary session on the report on the preparation of the post-election revision of the mff for the period 2014-2020. the report was intended to analyse only the purely budgetary aspects of the functioning of the mff and therefore does not affect the legal basis of the relevant budgetary legislation. the process leading to the presentation of this report was very lengthy and involved consultation of the main responsible committee on budgets with all the other committees of the european parliament. in the end, he was prepared to make 60 compromises. however, the whole document had a very negative impact on brexit, which nobody had really anticipated. it can be said that the current priorities of eu funding are completely inadequate and out of touch with reality. i think we should have sent a strong signal with this document that after brexit, there needs to be a comprehensive change, including in the funding of eu activities, that the policy of cuts has absolutely failed and that all the challenges we face need to be met, which will require major budgetary shifts and budgetary strengthening. with a few exceptions, that never happened. however, as i said, it was only a message that could only send a political signal. since there were still some positives in the report, i decided to stay and not completely blow up the complicated work of my colleagues.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the call on the european commission to introduce a mechanism of financial bonuses and rewards for the fulfilment or non-fulfilment of the obligations of the member states under the measures adopted by the eu. it's a call to impose fines on states that don't take in redistributed migrants.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that the report on the european parliament's contribution to the preparation of the revision of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 has been adopted. the last thing europe needs at the moment is a bad or outdated budgetary system. i am also pleased that we in the socialist and democratic group have been able to incorporate important appeals to combat climate change and protect biodiversity into the report. despite the paris agreement to limit global warming to 1.5°c and the mid-term review of the european biodiversity strategy showing that europe is significantly lagging behind in meeting all its targets, this was by no means an easy task. the report also rightly acknowledges the importance of cohesion policy and investment activities, as well as the need to reduce poverty and unemployment, which are evident in several countries. what i am far less pleased about is the forced conditionality which, in the context of the migration crisis, should be seen as a financial punishment for countries that are not in solidarity with each other, and which unfortunately has become part of the report. so, although the text is of very high quality, i have decided to abstain. i refuse to participate in the deepening identity crisis and the growth of euroscepticism that such proposals are fuelling and that europe is clearly not managing.
in writing. the report of the budget committee on the preparation of the post-election revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020 shall constitute a recommendation of the european parliament to the european commission. it is expected to present a draft revision of the mff in autumn 2016 which will revise the financial programmes to better reflect current needs. the ep's main recommendations include a call for increased ceilings (in commitments) to deal with the migration and refugee crisis, youth unemployment and competitiveness. the ep also recommends revising the ceiling for payments upwards to avoid a repeat of the eu's insolvency. the revision should not affect the national envelopes for the structural funds or for agricultural policy. the final text of the resolution, however, unfortunately contains a number of problematic points. all of them are mentioned in point 53, which refers to the conditionality of the funds depending on how the member states fulfil their obligations under the compulsory relocation of refugees (permanent quotas), i.e. a bonus malus at european level. in other words, the commission should propose a system whereby countries which fulfil or fail to fulfil these commitments would lose part of the structural funds. this demand is absolutely unacceptable and it led me, along with other points, to not support the resolution in the end.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on preparations for the post-election revision of the 2014-2020 multi-annual financial framework (mff) in the context of the results of the british referendum of 23 june 2016. the report calls upon the european commission to provide the budgetary authority with ‘all useful information on the possible budgetary implications of this referendum, without prejudging the outcome of the forthcoming negotiations between the united kingdom and the union’. i nevertheless had strong reservations about the introduction of one or more new own resources. but the global political context in the eu leads me to support this text, even though it is not perfect on many points.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i consider an audit of the vfr to be necessary. the current eu financial planning is outdated and it is not possible to respond flexibly to the problems that are now affecting europe. i am therefore in favour of raising the ceilings for the areas of migration and the refugee crisis, competitiveness and youth employment, which are included in this report by the european parliament. i also support an upward revision of the payment ceiling so that the eu does not (again) default. however, i consider that the most important aspect of the revision of the mff is that the appropriations in the national envelopes for the structural funds and local development will not be affected by the revision.
in writing. ‒ enormous tax avoidance, as shown by the recent information leaks, is causing harm on several levels. therefore i agree that there is a need for action. multinational companies have to comply with the same rules as small and medium-sized businesses – and pay their taxes where they gain profit, not in tax havens. corporate taxation has to be transparent, clear and fair for everyone. for that purpose, cooperation at european and international level is essential. thank you.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report which shows that the european parliament takes the issue of tax evasion and fairness of tax systems really seriously. at the same time as the panama papers committee of inquiry is being set up and the new money laundering directive is being prepared, this report is also a step in the right direction. it proposes measures to make the eu's corporate tax system fairer and more transparent, calls for a public register of beneficial owners of companies, a european blacklist of tax havens, calls for sanctions against non-cooperative tax jurisdictions, a code of conduct for banks and tax advisers and a common consolidated corporate income tax base. i believe we need to introduce stricter measures to ensure that multinationals pay their fair share of taxes and that another tax scandal does not occur in the eu.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the introduction of a single corporate income tax base, i consider it an attempt to limit tax collection in the czech republic and transfer part of the profits to eu countries, from where companies leave due to high taxes.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on tax measures from the taxe workshop. the report is critical of tax evasion and unfair practices such as aggressive tax planning, etc. i believe that the fight against tax evasion must be one of our priorities, because it entails irreplaceable losses for both states and citizens. however, i am not convinced that the introduction of a consolidated corporate income tax base would help to improve the situation, and i would consider it a first step towards the unification of fiscal policy, which i still believe should remain the responsibility of the individual member states. that's why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ as in the past, i voted for the report on tax rulings and other measures. i did so because i support the creation of a common definition and list of tax havens and the establishment of sanctions against financial intermediaries who help multinational companies avoid tax obligations. i also voted in favour of protecting whistleblowers, whose role in the recent tax scandals has proven irreplaceable, and without whom this injustice would not have come to light in the first place. i believe that the work of the taxe 2 special committee will help to increase the pressure on some member states which have taken a rather cautious stance on reforming their tax systems and thus block the increase in overall transparency. the practices whereby multinational companies pay up to 30% less tax than companies operating in one country need to be ended. it is probably needless to say that the vast majority of these are small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. companies which, on the contrary, provide jobs for the vast majority of european citizens. it is necessary to change the fact that up to 13 member states do not have proper rules to combat aggressive tax planning and that their inconsistency is robbing europeans as well as citizens of developing countries. parliament has been calling for months for closure of loopholes in legislation, exchange of information and proper controls. it's time for the council to hear us out.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome the fact that the european parliament, thanks to my vote, has today passed a number of concrete proposals to combat tax fraud by large multinational companies. the fight against tax evasion and tax havens is one of the key political priorities of the social democrats in the european parliament. the report approved today was the result of a special committee on taxation set up 18 months ago in response to the luxleaks scandal and subsequently strengthened after the panama papers scandal. the report adopted today contains several important proposals, such as the preparation of a single list of tax havens (including a blacklist and specific sanctions), the introduction of automatic sanctions for non-cooperative jurisdictions, and sanctions for banks, law firms and advisers that cooperate with them. the house also calls for a binding law to limit the abuse of so-called patent boxes (special tax incentives for patent holders operating in the jurisdictions of certain eu member states). the proposal adopted today is not only a clear message to multinational corporations that their unfair practices may lead to the termination of their business activities in the future, but also a proposal for a way forward to gradually put an end to harmful tax practices that cost the eu billions of euros a year.
in writing. ‒ tax evasion costs the eu member states more than €1 trillion a year, more than they spend on healthcare. it is money that is so lacking in public services, money that states could invest in the necessary infrastructure, creating new jobs or improving the quality of life of citizens. the fight against tax evasion and fraud in the european union is therefore also one of the focal points of the social democrats' group and i am pleased that they have managed to negotiate a report which clearly calls for concrete sanctions and other legislative measures to prevent these practices.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the report of the ep special committee on tax rulings and other measures. the tax advisor also provided a detailed description of the tax rulings and the tax rulings of luxopco and luxscs. the resolution welcomes the european initiatives aimed at reducing the scope for tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. various tax-avoidance practices by large multinational corporations, while strictly legal, are undeniably unfair. taxes should be paid where the value added and the profit are generated. the european commission is invited to go further and propose further measures to combat tax evasion, such as a common tax base or, in particular, a common european list of tax havens. the report also calls for sanctions against tax havens, such as the suspension of free trade agreements, as well as banks and consulting firms that assist companies in moving profits to tax havens. i believe that from the european parliament's point of view it is essential to call on the council to take real account of our recommendations on tax legislation. under the treaties, tax legislation is adopted by the council, acting unanimously after consulting the european parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report presenting recommendations regarding the fight against aggressive tax optimisation. this report call for the possibility to look into introducing financial responsibility for tax advisers engaging in illegal tax practices, guidelines to define what is permitted in terms of transfer prices, better protection for whistle-blowers and a european withholding tax to ensure that profits leaving the eu are taxed in it at least once.
in writing. ‒ i support this report on tax rulings and i am in favour of the commission presenting a proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base together with an appropriate and fair distribution key by the end of 2016. i believe that a comprehensive solution to eliminate harmful tax practices in the union, to ensure clarity and simplicity for businesses and to facilitate cross-border economic activity within the union should be the key. i am personally in favour of the code of conduct group publishing a publicly available annual report that identifies and describes the most harmful tax practices.
‒ europe needs to invest in research and innovation because it creates jobs and, of course, economic growth. unfortunately, the eu has not yet succeeded in achieving this goal, it is lagging behind and its support for research and innovation is only on paper. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution which comes with options for how to implement the link between the horizon 2020 framework programme, cohesion policy and the structural funds. i agree, for example, that both the member states and the commission should pay more attention to the needs of smes and also work to reduce the administrative burden. however, it is clear that much more needs to be done in this area by the union, the member states and all stakeholders, and consistent and effective cooperation is absolutely essential.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the praise of the eu structural funds. the european union is misusing the structural funds to promote itself, but it is just redistributed taxpayers' money.
in writing. i supported the resolution and highlighted its call for financial instruments to play a significant role in the 2014-2020 programming period as a complement to grants. the importance of financial instruments is given by their high leverage effect, which can have a positive impact on innovation, for example through energy efficiency, and can contribute to a better uptake rate by providing the necessary co-financing, in particular in member states and regions with low national co-financing capacity. in this context, it should be borne in mind, however, that grants and loans do not finance the same type of activities and that these different types of support target different types of beneficiaries and projects. it is therefore important to establish and maintain the right balance between grants and financial instruments and to strengthen the accountability and transparency of financial instruments and their focus on results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on synergies for innovation in the european structural and investment funds, horizon 2020 and other european innovation funds and eu programmes. i strongly support the objectives of these programmes and i believe that symbiosis between european funds is a viable option for achieving better results in research, innovation and regional development.
in writing. ‒ i supported the commission work programme for 2017 as i believe it is generally well prepared and it reflects many priorities we share in our political group. having said that, there were several parts of the text and a few amendments touching upon or related to quota-based relocation system for refugees coming to the eu, which i oppose.
in writing. i could not support the european parliament resolution on the strategic priorities for the commission work programme for 2017 because i have no confidence in the commission in this composition and i ask for its resignation for many reasons: 1.it negotiates trade agreements behind the backs of citizens, which jeopardise many of the gains of european integration, particularly in the areas of the environment, consumer protection and social rights. despite the disagreement of the v4 countries, it constantly promotes quotas for the redistribution of refugees. refuses to accept responsibility for the uk's eu referendum. four, she has lost all sense of reason and political sense. in the aftermath of the british referendum, instead of calming the situation, she introduced several other controversial proposals. 5.it ignores the results of the european citizens' initiatives. 6th it suggests that the precautionary principle be abandoned in the assessment of endocrine disruptors. 7. ignores the views of member states and the scientific community on glyphosate. 8th he refuses to publish some of his studies, saying that now is not the time because of the refugee crisis. it's clear that he doesn't want to publish them because of their conclusions. 9th despite parliament's disapproval, he is preparing visa-free travel to turkey. 10 years. i do not believe that it wants to fight tax havens when its president juncker, in his luxembourg activities, has made this country a tax haven for a select number of multinational companies.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree that the eu should seek to introduce a binding common consolidated corporate tax base. i see this as an attempt to limit tax collection in the czech republic and transfer the profits to eu countries, from where companies leave because of high taxes.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed the resolution on the preparation of the commission work programme for 2017. the commission has presented its priorities, which in my view show considerable shortcomings. for example, in the area of migration, i completely lack the commitment to address the root causes of migration and not just focus on the redistribution of refugees. strengthening relations with nato, solving economic problems by strengthening economic and monetary union, these are just a sampling of another of the elements that are problematic for me. the commission also lacks a focus on social and environmental issues, as well as working conditions and addressing the ever-growing unemployment, especially among young people. i therefore voted against the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. at the previous plenary session in june, this parliament supported by a large majority an unlawful resolution on unfair trading practices in the food chain. it calls on the commission to come forward with a proposal defining common principles to combat such practices. parliament was clear that unfair trading practices between actors in the food chain are a serious problem that requires a legislative framework at european level. i consider that the emphasis on this requirement for the commission in the resolution on its work programme for 2017 is a perfectly logical follow-up and i have supported this provision. the parliament, like the slovak presidency, which is also actively involved in tackling this issue, is prepared to strongly remind the commission that the period of monitoring supply chain relationships over several years is behind us and that self-regulation initiatives have reached their limits. concrete measures must now follow to create a fair competitive environment and more transparent relations between farmers, producers and food chains.
in writing. ‒ every year, in october, the european commission delivers its ‘annual work programme’ for the following year. this year i voted in favour of this resolution even though i do not agree with some recommendations on the migration crisis. in fact, agreeing on a permanent relocation mechanism and a common asylum system on this issue makes little sense as long as we have not yet agreed on the larger common approach to migration and organised our external borders effectively, and it might even jeopardise our efforts to find compromises on controversial issues. but against the background of the brexit vote and a number of economic and geopolitical challenges, it was important to adopt a resolution setting out the strategic priorities of the european commission in 2017. indeed it calls for more ambitious and effective european solutions, strongly anchored in a more democratic process, which aim to respond to eu citizens’ concerns about the big challenges the eu faces, from the economy, to attacks on fundamental rights and increasing security threats.
in writing. ‒ the international law is binding and all the states have to comply with it. japan has failed to do so, ignoring the icj ruling and moratorium on whale killing. it is with deep regret that despite international protest, japan continues with such a practice that endangers the biodiversity and marine ecosystem. japan is our close partner with shared values; nevertheless, i believe we should urge its compliance with international obligations and i supported this motion.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion calling on japan to end whaling and to respect the conclusions of the international whaling commission (iwc). the whole gue/ngl group is unanimous in supporting this proposal, which was adopted by parliament with 87% of the votes cast in favour. japan's actions violate international obligations to protect marine mammals, violate the iwc moratorium on all commercial whaling, which is intended to protect the whale population from extinction and allow its recovery. however, the iwc contains a special permit that allows the capture of a limited number of whales for strictly scientific purposes. japan uses this special permit, but the vast majority of whales appear on a plate rather than under a microscope. japan continues to disregard the 2014 ruling of the international court of justice to end whaling for insufficiently beneficial scientific research. that is why i support the maintenance of a global moratorium on commercial whaling, i also support the prohibition of international trade in whale products, i call for an end to whaling for scientific purposes and i am in favour of designating sufficiently large areas of oceans and seas as nature reserves where whaling will be banned. japan is our strategic partner, and our relationship is based on shared values, including an unwavering belief in effective multilateralism and a rules-based international order that both sides should respect.
in writing. - i got held up. if japan is hunting whales unnecessarily or in violation of international commitments, that is regrettable, but it is not for the eu to deal with, it is for other transnational organizations to deal with, namely the international whaling commission, which is pushing for restrictions on whaling.
in writing. ‒ we discussed a motion for a resolution today to draw attention to the fact that japan continues to hunt whales despite an international ban in 1986, and has killed more than 20 000 whales by 2014. whereas, according to the judgment of the international court of justice, japan should have stopped whaling under the jarpa programme because the hunt was not found to be sufficiently scientifically beneficial. the resolution expresses concern at japan's decision to continue whaling and calls on japan to end whaling, insisting that the issue be resolved through dialogue. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ in 1982 the international whaling commission (iwc) put in place a moratorium on all commercial whaling, with an exception for scientific research purposes, in order to protect stocks from extinction and allow them to recover. despite this ban that is still in place, japan, amongst other countries, has continued its whaling activities, killing over 20 000 whales up to 2014. in 2015, it announced its decision to resume whaling under a new scientific research programme. this is why i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on japan to stop its whaling activities and to abide by the iwc moratorium. these activities undermine biodiversity and marine ecosystems, breach the iwc standards and international law, and are based on the unfounded stipulation that genuine scientific research requires the large-scale and regular killing of whales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of objecting to the provision of european union guarantees for the european investment bank's investments in belarus. i'm generally against the taxpayer being held liable for the investments of politicians.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a commission delegated act approving the accession of belarus to the list of non-eu countries that would be able to receive financial support for the implementation of some of their projects through the european investment bank. i personally welcome this decision, which i believe opens the door to further cooperation and dialogue. in a joint resolution, several political groups objected to this commission delegated act. i am not one of those members, which is why i voted against such an objection and supported the commission.
in writing. i supported the statement of objection, in particular because of the persistently unsatisfactory human rights situation in belarus. the regime has still not restored the civil and political rights of former political prisoners, nor has it taken any official institutional steps to ensure freedom of association and assembly, ensured full cooperation with the un special rapporteur on human rights in belarus, and taken the necessary measures to ensure nuclear safety standards on its territory, including in close proximity to the eu border. in particular, in this context, i believe that extending eib financing operations to belarus would not be an appropriate step and could be abused by the regime there to support its, in my view, unacceptable functioning in a number of areas.
in writing. i supported the objection against the commission delegated decision extending the scope of the european investment bank's financial operations in belarus. i do not agree that the eib should be able to support projects in belarus as proposed by its delegated act to the commission. these should be investments in social and environmental, health or education sectors. it is true that the lukashenka dictatorship has recently shown a more friendly face towards the eu, even releasing political prisoners. but i think we should not go so far as to open up the financial potential of our investment bank to belarus, at least not at the moment. parliamentary elections are scheduled for 11 september in belarus, and i do not consider it a happy moment to take a decision that de facto praises the lukashenka regime. let's wait and see if the elections are held regularly and make a decision accordingly. unfortunately, although supported by czech meps for the epp, the objection to the delegated decision, which would have prevented its adoption, did not obtain the necessary qualified majority of all meps and the commission decision will thus enter into force.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's objection to the commission's decision to extend the scope of the european investment bank's (eib) financing operations to belarus. the objection is directed against this extension and the subsequent provision of an eu guarantee for any losses incurred by the eib from financial operations in support of local investment projects. in particular, these would be projects in the areas of social, environmental, economic and health and education infrastructure. i had the opportunity to discuss with most of the leaders of the belarusian opposition at a joint meeting in brussels about two months ago. they unanimously condemned the lifting of eu sanctions against belarus, which had already been adopted, following the release of political prisoners. the belarusian regime released political prisoners last year, but their civil and political rights have not yet been restored. in general, the situation in belarus has not changed substantially in the areas of human rights, freedom of assembly or media pluralism. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu-russia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-russia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-russia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-russia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-russia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-russia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-russia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-russia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-russia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-russia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-russia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-russia association agreement. lukashenko is only an experienced tactician. i therefore agreed with the authors of the objection text that, in view of the upcoming general elections in september this year and the above, further accommodative action by the eu is unfortunately not appropriate. dictators are not to be trusted. unfortunately, i was voted down by the full ep.
in writing. i voted to object to the granting of a european investment bank guarantee for possible losses in respect of belarus, as i consider that the granting of this guarantee and thus the simultaneous encouragement of investments in belarus in the run-up to the elections in belarus is not appropriate. very little has changed in belarus in terms of respect for human rights and it is our duty to continue to support the efforts of the belarusian democratic opposition to establish the rule of law and respect for human rights. the question of investment and human rights must not be separated and the undemocratic regime must not be legitimised even by the support of investment, especially when this support can be used to prolong the regime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objecting resolution regarding belarus’ eligibility for eib loans. the commission wanted to grant it before elections in the country. i am deeply convinced that this timing is very bad and that belarus has been given enough at this stage as a goodwill gesture from the eu. belarus needs now to urgently release political prisoners, and stop the death penalty in the country. belarus is the last country in europe to retain the death penalty.
in writing. - i got held up. i consider the 'capital adequacy' requirements to be questionable, whether in the definition of the european commission, central banks or other institutions. i see neither benefit nor harm in the commission's decision.
mr president, madam high representative, the european union's member states are facing new, previously unknown security risks. it is becoming increasingly difficult for individual states to resist them on their own. there is no doubt that the european union's common security and defence policy is becoming a priority. simply because the community of half a billion people has extraordinary economic, military and cultural-historical potential. it is a force that can draw on the millennial tradition of euro-atlantic civilization. the report by mrs mogherini defines the fundamental risks facing europe today in a balanced and diplomatic way. in general, it emphasises that the eu will promote peace and guarantee the security of its citizens and its territory. this means that europeans working with their partners must have the necessary tools to defend themselves. aware of the risks facing the european union, the high representative's report stresses that 'the european project, which has brought unprecedented peace, prosperity and democracy, is being tested'. i agree, madam high representative, and i expect the existing dangers to escalate. so it's imperative that we stratify them and call them by their real names. we all need to realize that the fundamental danger to europe today is the kremlin's imperialist policy and the russian federation's violation of international norms. they are also threatened by the underestimation and trivialization of russian spending, the preference for trade relations with russia and appeasement towards the kremlin. it is therefore very important that efforts to improve the quality of eu cooperation with nato are stepped up. it is clear that the time has come to consider a substantially greater autonomy for european security policy. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer the question by raising the blue card. i don't want to bid here, and i didn't even talk about which danger is greater in my speech. my historical experience and the historical experience of the countries that were vassals of the soviet bloc teach me caution. and i think that the russian danger and the imperialism of the russian federation is threatening the former countries of the soviet empire.
madam president, as far as china is concerned, we in the european union have a very ambivalent and complicated relationship with china. on the one hand, everyone wants to do business with china, on the other hand, we have certain problems here, that china does not meet european standards not only in the field of human rights, but also in other areas. but we also have to acknowledge, third, that china is a story of tremendous success and tremendous social change, perhaps unprecedented in human civilization, where in just a few decades, society has moved in a very advanced direction. so, in my opinion, we need a correct, practical, pragmatic relationship with china, and we need to be able to protect our interests, and especially the economy, from the sometimes very assertive chinese approach. this is particularly true of how we deal with the promised market economy status, and here i would expect the commission to take a very active approach and to take an active approach.
madam president, we are talking today about cooperation between the european union and one of its largest trading partners, china. the strategy presented covers a wide range of common issues. i would only touch on one part, namely the forthcoming expiry of the provisions of the protocol on china's accession to the wto. i've always been a proponent of a maximum open market, which is a tough but fair arbiter between the individual participants. all players must have the same conditions, rights and obligations. so they play by the same rules. we have set ourselves very strict and drastic environmental and other measures for the steel industry and other industries. in china, companies in these fields have very different conditions, environmental standards, public subsidies and government support. in addition, china has a huge excess capacity in steel production. so if we were to open up the european market today with different rules in the european union and in china, it could be really devastating for many european companies. i trust that the commission will put forward a reasonable solution to parliament as soon as possible.
mr president, i am proud that both my country and the eu as a whole are parties to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. we have agreed to ensure and promote these rights. article 4 is very clear in this regard; but the article continues ‘to this end, states parties undertake to adopt all appropriate legislative, administrative and other measures for the implementation of the rights.’ the commission has been working hard to implement this convention: you have proposed both the web accessibility directive, which i am honoured to be rapporteur for, and recently you proposed the accessibility act. but it is the member states that must translate those proposals into real actions on the ground. it took the council four years to accept web accessibility and the speed which is being applied to the web accessibility act is regrettable. we cannot afford to wait forever and neither can our citizens with disabilities. so, commissioner, i encourage you to stress this fact to the council. accessibility is not a cost but a right for all our citizens, and i think our governments must honour this right.
mr president, the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is a truly important document and i am glad that the european parliament is taking up this matter. i think we should emphasize as much as possible the relationship between availability, quality and cost-effectiveness. disabled people are already exposed to a considerable amount of financial costs. i therefore believe that the provision of health care should take this into account. in general, i think health care should be free. however, for disabled people, free of charge is an absolute necessity, given the very specific situation in which they find themselves. the health care system must respond to these people and do everything possible to avoid complicating their already difficult life situation. it must take account of their needs and possibilities, and i am glad that the draft report has kept that in mind.
mr president, i have great respect for my colleagues who have disabilities, who are here with us and overcome obstacles every day. it's an example of tremendous motivation and tremendous personal commitment, and i want to thank them for their work here. i think it is important that the european union does not forget people with disabilities and that it supports the member states in their efforts. at eu level, we also have to meet our domestic tasks, and in this we can rely on the first monitoring report of the un human rights committee. our response at this moment is this comprehensive report which really addresses all areas of disabled citizens in their daily struggle for a life of dignity and fullness and i want to thank my colleague, mrs helge stevens, for this comprehensive report. i think there are a few key things that make a full life possible, whether it's education, access to the job market, or even support for the families and caregivers who help these people. i would like to say that the czech republic has made great progress in this area and is committed to the integration of children. of course, we also see the task of supporting teachers in their improved preparation, in the conditions to work with disabled pupils, and in this area the czech republic has made significant progress and i think it is an example of the integration of disabled children.
mr president, accessibility of transport is absolutely essential for people with disabilities. as the socialist and democratic group's shadow rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, i am pleased that a number of points which we supported by a large majority here have appeared in the final report. people with disabilities face a number of barriers, starting with finding information on suitable connections, orientation at stations, accessibility of infrastructure and transport services themselves. we need to ensure that the rights of disabled people are fully respected in european legislation on passenger rights for all modes of transport and that it is also properly implemented. i am also very pleased that the report includes a call for the extension of the european disability card to member states which did not initially join the pilot project, including the czech republic. i would like to conclude by thanking all the colleagues who contributed to the report, and in particular the rapporteur, mrs helga stevens, for the very open approach she has taken to the report.
in writing. in sub-saharan africa, we have the most extreme forms of persecution, the most extreme human rights violations against people with albinism. they face societal discrimination, verbal attacks, exclusion from public services. they're threatened with death, kidnapping, rape, or maiming. discrimination can lead to lifelong trauma and psychosocial problems. people with albinism often lack access to adequate health care and education. despite international media coverage of the problem and the adoption of new legislation, very few people are prosecuted and convicted, and crimes and torture still occur. the greatest threat to people with albinism in africa is widespread superstition about the special, magical powers of their bodies that bring good luck, wealth and health. this leads smugglers to hunt albino animals and then trade their bodies. in 2015, there were 448 attacks on albinos in 25 african countries, a figure that is likely even lower than the actual number, as authorities do not systematically monitor and document such crimes. it should be remembered that persons with albinism have the right to live as others do without fear, as stated in the 1948 declaration of human rights.
in writing. today we voted on a motion for a resolution concerning the alarming treatment of albinos on the african continent, particularly in malawi. this minority is subject to constant discrimination, such as exclusion from poverty relief programmes, attacks and ongoing violations of their fundamental human rights. physical attacks and violent crimes, often resulting in loss of life, are not unusual, and the perpetrators of these crimes usually go unnoticed. i believe that protecting human rights is our immanent duty. i voted in favour of the joint motion.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. bahrain committed itself to reforming its legal system in 2011. and we have little appreciation for his efforts to reform this area of criminal law or legal procedure, which are moving in the right direction from my point of view and from the point of view of the ppe. this state must be regarded as a unique case of a stable country in view of its geographical location and the composition of the population in its territory. i personally appreciate bahrain's participation in the international coalition against the islamic state or its cooperation in the fight against terrorism. i believe that the current situation in bahrain is not ideal and i am in favour of the european union making a very active appeal to respect human rights in the country. but i appreciate all the positive changes this country has achieved in the last few years. and let's try to give her the so-called imaginative hand from europe so that bahrain can move forward with its reforms.
the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and we are all convinced that this is the right way to achieve this. unfortunately, the situation of the rohingya has not changed much. on the contrary, it is getting worse, we know that they are denied citizenship, their genocide is tolerated by the buddhists, so they are threatened with death. those who survive are forbidden to have more than two children, so that the ethnic group cannot expand. 100,000 have been forced to flee myanmar. european policy must make it clear that this treatment of ethnicity is unacceptable. we must not support and tolerate genocide, we must not tolerate human trafficking.
madam president, i supported this report for many reasons, although i agree with my predecessor that in some parts of the report it was a bit activist. however, the un is an organization that needs our support, its place in world affairs is absolutely irreplaceable. this is shown by the whole, in fact, more than seventy years of development since the second world war, although of course there are national or local conflicts, the world risk of catastrophe has been significantly eliminated thanks to the work of the un. i think we must support its efforts, which are intended, as has been said many times here, to prevent disputes and to resolve them actively and peacefully. and the second area where the un should definitely be involved and where it should have our support is the protection of human rights, the charter of human rights, which contains certain necessary minimums. i'm also against pro-activist expansionism. but this necessary minimum should really be respected. and the challenge for the next decade will be how to enforce and enforce this change.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the call for the creation of a new un body to provide 'a worldwide automatic exchange of information on tax matters and to draw up a common global blacklist of tax havens'. tax havens are sovereign states, and if they attract low-tax businesses and individuals, they have every right to do so.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report assessing the 71st session of the un general assembly. the report covers a number of important issues, such as the emphasis on the protection of human rights, the need for a peaceful solution in the middle east, the fight against terrorism, cyber security, the fight against illegal migration and climate change. i abstained in the final vote, however, because i cannot agree with some of the ideas. examples include calls for greater pressure on russia or forcing the european path as the only option for the countries of the former soviet union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for the 71st session of the united nations general assembly, which defines a list of common eu priorities on human rights, climate change, development and the active promotion of the rule of law and international humanitarian law for the next assembly of the un. in addition to agreeing with the recommendations overall, i consider this to be an important step to strengthen parliament’s voice on the global stage. i am particularly supportive of the establishment of a clear human-rights-performance based criteria for membership of the united nations human rights council as well as a comprehensive reform of the un security council to reflect today’s realities and power balance.
madam president, i am glad that this convention was the first that the european union could ratify and that we could therefore also accede to it as a union, as a body, because it is the consequence of the treaty of lisbon, which allows the union to enter into legal relations as a legal entity. just on the edge. i would like to say that of course we all support the inclusion of people with disabilities in society. but these people don't just want to hear these words of support, they also want to see a proactive approach and also reassurance that they are valid members of society. and i think we can make it easier for them to move around in their everyday lives. for example, when a municipality builds sidewalks, you wouldn't believe how much trouble it's going to take to overcome a barrier and build sidewalks with reduced traffic. it's just one of those things that's totally practical. i think we should bring these words to life, to everyday reality, and make them actually practice, not just theory.
in writing. an estimated 80 million people in the eu are living with a disability. of these, 46 million are women. the charter of fundamental rights and freedoms of the eu explicitly prohibits discrimination on the grounds of disability in articles 21 and 26 and provides for the equal participation of persons with disabilities in the life of society. the eu has ratified the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and the un body has therefore monitored how the eu fulfils its obligations in this area. disabled people still face problems in accessing the labour market. the employment gap with non-disabled persons is 22% and with women it is 21%. it makes it very difficult to live an active, independent life. it was noted that the eu did not formally consult organisations representing persons with disabilities in 2015 when drawing up the progress report. it therefore requests the organisations representing these persons to participate actively in the next reviews. the eu is invited to ratify the optional protocol to the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the commission is invited to take into account the eu's shared commitment to building a barrier-free europe when assessing the social situation in the member states. the report covers a wide range of demands for barrier-free access in all areas, from transport to political rights to emergency calls. it will not be easy to work out at least a timetable for bringing all the requirements into the eu's life.
in writing. - i got held up. i agree that people with disabilities have a hard time, but the fact that this is acknowledged in the form of a european parliament resolution does not improve their situation. social policy is, moreover, a matter for the member states.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report which deals with a very important subject, namely the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. it is clear that the state has a crucial role to play in helping disabled people. statistics show that without state social benefits, more than 68.5% of people with disabilities would be living in poverty. women are more at risk of poverty and social exclusion, as a result of multiple discrimination, whether physical, psychological or sexual. in the report, we call on the commission to consider the creation of an eu-wide framework to ensure the effective exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities, to promote their autonomy, to ensure accessibility and employability, and to eliminate all forms of discrimination. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i am aware that it is often the disabled who are the victims of social exclusion. this is despite the fact that they are full citizens entitled to the same opportunities as the rest of us. i supported the report on the implementation of the un convention, because it is unacceptable that up to 80 million europeans are treated unequally and their dignity is thus violated. i believe that consultation between organisations representing disabled people, businesses and legislators is essential at european and national level. action is needed to combat all forms of discrimination and, in particular, to address violence against people with any kind of disability. i have voted in favour of initiatives aimed at reaching out to the general public and influencing their perceptions. it is a great pity that society does not exploit the potential offered by this population and that disabled citizens have to face a worryingly high unemployment rate. i therefore voted for a better use of the european structural and investment funds, which can help the situation considerably. i also voted for the inclusion of disability rights in other policies and programmes, because only then can there be a comprehensive improvement in the lives, self-sufficiency and dignity of this vulnerable group of the population.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague helga stevens on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd). i have great respect for her work in the ep and for the fact that she has to overcome the difficult obstacles posed by her disability. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is the only human rights convention to which the eu has so far acceded as a whole. the european union cannot forget people with disabilities and should support member states in their efforts. the report puts the inclusion of people with disabilities on a human rights footing and highlights the overall benefits of such a process for society. the report calls for the elimination of discrimination and the adoption of a european accessibility act (draft legislation on accessibility and adaptation of products and services for disabled people). it also takes into account the fact that certain groups or categories of disabled people are particularly disadvantaged, such as those with migrant backgrounds, but also that more women than men are affected. the report also contains a number of redundant and ideologically biased recommendations on sexual and reproductive health and a proposal to cut structural funds in the event of breaches of fundamental rights. yet, in the final vote, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the inclusion of persons with disabilities, an estimated 80 million persons in the eu, is not only a fundamental right but also an asset for society as a whole, and all member states must work on guaranteeing equal access to training and education, and real opportunities to achieve professional and personal development. this is why i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which outlines the state of the eu’s fulfilment of its international human rights obligations and offers guidance for further necessary legislative and policy actions. this is the first time that the eu has been reviewed by a un body, which is a real proof of the eu’s commitment to equality and respect for human rights and its will to achieve further progress.
in writing. - i voted against the objection. i don't agree with the call to limit the sale of energy drinks to young people. energy drinks are not alcohol, and it is up to parents to monitor the suitability of energy drinks for children.
in writing. ‒ we have today discussed a motion for a resolution calling attention to the harmfulness of caffeine and sugar in energy drinks and, in particular, asking the commission to come forward with a proposal on how to better raise awareness of the health risks associated with their consumption, especially for children and adolescents. according to the study, a 250ml can of energy drink can contain up to 27g of sugar and 80mg of caffeine, with the largest group of consumers shown to be adolescents, with approximately 25% of them drinking three or more cans of these drinks at once. excessive consumption can lead to sleep and behavior disorders, not to mention headaches. as a doctor, in particular, i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to including a new health claim about the benefits of caffeine to the commission’s list of health claims about foods that producers are allowed to make, a list which informs consumers about the recommended daily intakes of certain foods. while i do support the commission’s work on promoting good dietary practice to protect public health, i believe that member states, rather than the eu, should be able to decide about the marketing of food and non-alcoholic beverages. in addition, recommending the consumption of caffeine in some cases is likely to favour the consumption of energy drinks and consequently encourage the excessive daily intake of sugar and caffeine.
mr president, commissioner, it is a pity that this very interesting and important subject is only being brought up at a time when the chamber is almost empty and the attention of the press is relatively limited. the republic of china has long been one of the european union's largest and most important trading partners. but our rapidly expanding economic, political and cultural cooperation is also bringing with it increased data transfer. this includes the personal data of european union citizens, which i believe can be very dangerous. the country has no legislation on the collection, storage and processing of personal data. this major shortage is a major threat to the european union and to european citizens themselves. it is therefore necessary, commissioner, to ensure that transfers of personal data between us and china comply with the european union's requirements on privacy and data protection.
for the alde group. mr president, commissioner, for many months now, european road hauliers have been the victims of a change of course by some european union countries, which are starting to build bureaucratic barriers at the borders. the pretext is the so-called fight against social wage dumping, but enforcing local regulations is a bureaucratic burden, especially for foreign carriers, and a controlled elimination of their competitiveness on the european transport market. the regulatory measures of germany and now also of france are in direct contradiction with the declared creation of a common trading area in the european union. the free movement of services is one of the fundamental freedoms of all member states which must be guaranteed. how can we understand the commission, which on the one hand proclaims the need for a freer market and on the other hand has been examining our protests against germany's protectionist policies and its minimum wage law for a year without any teeth? a year of exploration without visible or audible results! no wonder france this month has taken the same path as germany and introduced the loi macron. the precedent sets off a chain reaction, just as we feared. europe, already facing the greatest crisis of identity and cohesion in decades, continues to fall apart. what's next? and who, if not the commission, will stop this protectionism in europe? who will finally have an open dialogue with the protesting transport companies operating for months in legal uncertainty? commissioner, is this really the new europe we are fighting for? (the rapporteur has agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i think that unfortunately yes, the discontent is there, we on the one hand proclaim that we want to have fundamental freedoms, we want to have a free market, we try to do it from all sides and on the other hand we introduce protectionist measures that really do not help us build the confidence of the citizens. we need to start communicating openly and start making policies that are based on the concrete data, the concrete statistics and the numbers that we need. so let's talk to the companies more and listen to them. i am thinking of us, of all my colleagues and of the commission.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome the open debate on the minimum wage and also your words about the unjustified administrative obstacles that have been imposed here by legislation in germany and france. our response and your swift action, your swift intervention, is awaited by dozens of hauliers who have turned to us with their concerns. i think it's in the interest of all citizens to protect the competitiveness of our companies, our employers. national measures which protect their market in a way that is contrary to the single internal market are simply not acceptable, and as has already been said, we cannot confuse the fight against social dumping with the creation of administrative barriers in the internal market which are contrary to the existing rules and which are protectionist. we must protect the competitiveness of our companies in the european market against third countries, against external social dumping from asia, which is the greatest threat to our competitiveness.
in writing. after germany decided to introduce a minimum wage and apply it universally to the transport sector, france followed suit. in both cases, the decisions are accompanied by an excessive administrative burden on the foreign carriers. the member states are thus responding to the european commission's long-term inaction by taking these measures. although it has opened proceedings with france and is continuing with germany, it has not yet established clear rules for the operation of transport in the european union, including the balanced functioning of the internal market and the safeguarding of the social conditions of drivers. unless the commission sets clear rules, member states will continue to implement their measures at national level. this could eventually lead to a situation where we have 28 different national arrangements in the internal market. i therefore call on the commission to publish as soon as possible a 'roadmap' package which will clarify this situation.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i can either repeat what mr langen has already eloquently said in the report – which i fully back, although maybe on one or two issues, like the capacity mechanisms, i would appreciate stronger language but i really fully back the report and i think it is a balanced one – or i can instead make a political point, and i would like to do exactly that. if we look today at the market, whether it is gas or whether it is any other source of energy, it is not economically viable to invest. that is the situation: that is what we are facing today and, unless we want to maintain that situation, we need to create different conditions. i believe this is the key issue. of course, cooperation among the member states – on the original approach, the market signals, the level of protectionism, which is too high, and the national approach – is vital. so my point today is that we have a balanced report, which addresses the right issues. in fact, if we have listened to the commissioner, i think these two positions and points of view very much merge. so what i hope is that tomorrow, when we vote on the report, we will give it strong support and send out a signal to the member states, which clearly, on the basis of the third package, still do not comprehend the situation fully.
mr president, energy security, an energy union – these were big topics that we were discussing here in parliament around a year ago. now we have bigger issues to work on, like brexit, the migration crisis, etc. but strategically speaking, the energy sector remains one of the key issues for the future of the european union. for the future of our economy – because cheaper, clean and reliable energy resources are a precondition for the good development of our economies. that is why i very much welcome the reports, especially the reports of mr langen. regarding this report there is one key issue, and the issue was debated here. the energy mix and most of the issues concerning energy are considered to be the responsibility of the member states, but efficient solutions, the efficient use of resources, the design of grids, and consumption and production do not respect the borders of states. that is why we should increasingly take this fact into account, otherwise we will not reach an effective solution at the european level. that is why i call on the member states to look at the issues that will allow us to efficiently use our resources and create the conditions that will lead to affordable energy supplies. especially, we should allow a better use of price signals to ensure capacity is available; we should strengthen the role of esra in order to promote regional development; and obviously we should support r&d because for the better use of renewable energies in particular we need to work on the storage of energy. i believe that better rules will ensure that more private investment is made in this market and that is why i call on the member states to look at this issue as a priority.
mr president, i welcome today's debate on energy in the eu, and in particular on the subject of heating and cooling. in the eu, as in the czech republic, a large proportion of buildings suffer from energy waste due to their ageing and outdated heating technologies. we waste heat, and yet almost 11% of eu citizens suffer from energy poverty. we therefore need such measures and additional investment in research into modern energy-saving technologies that will reduce the total cost of heating households and increase energy efficiency at all the basic stages of energy use.
madam president, i would also like to express my support for my colleagues who have raised questions about the functioning of this fund and its implementation. i think that the links between the current issues of migration have been highlighted quite sufficiently in the debate, so i would like to turn to another topic which is related to a point that we regularly have on the agenda of this house, namely human rights. i believe that we should also pay attention, when eu funds are used to support various african countries, to how these fundamental human rights are respected, because this is a subject that is discussed many times in this building. i think it is quite shameful when we blame specific countries for specific human rights violations and when the funds of european citizens are then directed to such countries in the long term. i think we should really think about this.
madam president, i thank the ladies for their report. i also think it is important that the european parliament should speak out about the negative demographic trends in the eu and that we should look for measures to respond to the demographic decline. i also agree with the emphasis on family policy, with measures to strengthen employment security and to improve difficult working conditions. for the reasons stated above, i would expect the european parliament to encourage member states to adopt pro-family policies that value parental care, support family members who care for both children and their dependants. and it will promote stable family relationships, for it is not just material conditions but also the environment of security, safety, trust, and good relationships that a family provides and should provide. the ep also calls on the commission to promote the development of a european social model based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women.
madam president, i see a positive aspect of the report, of course, such as the right to rest, the reconciliation of family life with the conditions of the labour market. there are a lot of positive things, but i want to highlight some of the negative things. in my opinion, labour law is already bound by a whole series of regulations. i think that the european parliament should not become a kind of paternalist, that it should enter into labour relations from this point of view, it is a matter of collective bargaining. i would very much like to see the ep become to some extent a trade union organisation for all workers in the labour market. i think that this is also a matter of the principle of subsidiarity, that the member states themselves should prove their activity in this matter. i have serious reservations about the report.
madam president, i would like to take a minute today to comment on a subject which, to a certain extent, breaks the boundaries of expression in france, for example, and that is the question of women wearing burqas. i do not wish to speak on this subject from the position of a member of the european parliament, but from the position of someone who is concerned about the principle of subsidiarity being respected in the eu institutions. i would like to oppose the introduction of such topics into the debate before the ep for the sole reason that they are national policy. i think that our decisions and our actions should be directed towards what is actually contained in the tfeu and the functioning of its institutions. i am quite certain that we should not violate the principle of subsidiarity in a number of other areas, for the sake of the eu being, above all, a body that functions in accordance with the wishes of the member states, of the governments of those member states, and that it provides a good service to citizens in the policies it defines.
madam president, the elections to the russian duma, the lower house of the parliament of the russian federation, are scheduled to take place on september 18, 2016. it will take place not only on the territory of the russian federation, but also in the occupied crimea. the kremlin is using these elections to legitimise the results of the so-called referendum of 16 march 2014 in the eyes of the international community. i would like to emphasise that despite all the efforts of russian diplomacy and the costly media disinformation campaign waged by the kremlin under applicable international law (e.g. un general assembly resolution 68/262), the status of the peninsula is unequivocal. he is an integral part of ukraine. any challenge to this fact is an attempt to destabilize respect for international obligations and territorial sovereignty.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i rise to draw attention to the very tense situation we face with turkey. as a member of the empl committee, i was supposed to visit turkey next week, but unfortunately, this trip is canceled in view of the current situation, which does not guarantee either security or the visit of the institutions with which we were supposed to speak. other committees' meetings have also been postponed. i am very concerned about this situation in view of turkey's pressure to speed up the introduction of visa-free travel and also in view of the overall developments in turkey. i personally consider it very important that the eu-turkey agreement is implemented and that we have the opportunity to see for ourselves that turkey is fulfilling the terms of the agreement. but if we have to fear going to turkey and we are not given information and the information is not given to the security forces, then we cannot agree to the introduction of visa-free travel.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, thank you for the debriefing that we received. i do not want to reiterate what has been said, and i think there are a number of important points. the reconfirmed commitment to growth, innovation, facilitation of investment and liberalisation of free trade is, of course, highly relevant. i also appreciate that china committed itself to free trade and to fight protectionism, and of course the decision to set up a global monitoring entity for the over-production of steel is highly relevant, especially nowadays for europe. in this respect it would be interesting to know from the commissioner what will precede the work at multilateral level, how we are going to perceive it and whether the commission has already considered the technicalities. i would like a bit more information on two points. on refugees, to which the minister devoted some time, i think that the recognition of the problem might not be entirely sufficient. secondly, we know that putin met obama on the sidelines of the summit and that a deal has been brokered on a ceasefire but i wonder why we do not have anything in the conclusions from the g20 summit. i think that, both on the refugee crisis and on this, this does not send the best signal. however, my main point is the following: while there is a recommitment to free trade, i wonder how credible the eu is in reconfirming this with its international partners if, at the same time, while on the one hand we are talking multilateral liberalisation, bilateral agreements and so on, we have, on the other, voices in germany, france and elsewhere in europe saying that the transatlantic trade and investment partnership – an important free trade agreement – is basically dead. we know what the commission had to say but i wonder how the council, and how the presidency, will react on the issue, because this is definitely a hit to the credibility of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, no one has yet given the citizens of the european union objective and clear answers, facts about what exactly happened. the commission's mandate for the negotiations formulates clear questions to investigate alleged failures by the commission and the member states. measures should have been taken to control the use of defeat devices, and in fact they were not. there should have been emissions measurements for the operation of the car and if it hadn't been for the us detection, we wouldn't have had this either. experts have spoken at the hearing before the investigative committee, saying that this is a long-standing problem. diesel cars did not meet emission limits in real driving conditions and could even use different means to achieve this. on the other hand, the european commission denies that it was wrong or that it acted too late and that it was unaware of the possible fraudulent behaviour. a lot of questions, a lot of unanswered questions. without a clear answer to these questions, we will not be able to restore the confidence of european consumers, and that is what i personally consider to be one of the main objectives of our efforts. i would therefore like to ask the rapporteurs to ensure that the final document resulting from the work of the committee of inquiry is absolutely clear and user-friendly. it must be clear to any eu citizen who has access to the results of the investigation what wrongdoing has been committed and, above all, who is responsible for it. the findings should put an end to this case. we should learn from the findings of the investigation and incorporate them into future legislation in this area, such as vehicle type-approval or emission measurement rules. last but not least, the european automotive industry is also waiting for our results. an industry that creates more than 12 million jobs in europe. an industry for which further delay could mean a brake on further development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it should be the endeavor of all institutions to get a clear result for our citizens.
mr. chairman, madam commissioner, in the famous series "of course, mr. minister", it is stated that if you do not want the truth to come out and everything to be covered up, you will set up a committee of inquiry. i am very pleased that the european parliament has decided to make full use of the potential of the committee of inquiry. but good intentions often come with a penalty, and so we have to face the commission's non-cooperation, the automobile companies' excuses, the shifting of responsibility, the blaming of others, and so on. the emis investigation committee is trying to uncover what we all know for a long time, that the whole scandal has been known for a long time, but has been covered up by all the parties involved. but we are struck by the resistance of those who should be held accountable, and their arrogance, which forces us to reveal the truth even more. i thank all my colleagues for their cooperation and let me thank in particular the chairman of the committee of inquiry, whose systematic approach proves that it is possible to achieve a successful outcome.
mr president, during the last year we have learnt a lot not about volkswagen, but mostly about the enforcement of eu regulation, about how division of responsibility between the union and the state works, and about the behaviour or ethics of some of the firms. it was very sad to learn all this, and frustrating, but we have got a chance to change things for the better. i am not afraid that industry cannot do it or that it is too expensive: industry just needs to have very clear and simple rules to follow. i do not believe that blaming and shaming should be a key part of the committee work. we should be focused on the future: that is the most important thing. we should start with understanding the basic facts and i will try to describe some of them. firstly, i believe that only cars complying with the rules should be allowed onto the market. that is what we must do: we have proper rules and these are the only way to avoid unnecessary health risks. we know that, by using existing technologies, even current diesel cars can be made clean. what will happen in the future is hard to tell because technology is evolving so quickly. we were late in introducing better laboratory testing. we are now on track. we must make sure that any altering of vehicles for testing will be prohibited. real driving tests and random sampling should be a very important component of a future better system and should be supported alongside independent testing. i believe that this general failure on our part should be turned into victory, namely into a new system that will be better for us all and that we must bring about.
mr president, commissioner, the work being done by the committee of inquiry into emissions measurements is really giving a comprehensive picture of the technical systems of combustion engines, especially diesel engines. we learned a tremendous amount of information, not only about the technical aspects, but also about the processes involved in preparing and approving the necessary legislation. it's really instructive to me personally how the strong political pressure to reduce co2 emissions, which is at the edge of technical possibilities, leads to huge problems. it pushes manufacturers to engage in unacceptable practices, to the point of fraud, as in the case of vw, and it also puts the official controls in a difficult situation. i believe that the outcome of the work of the committee of inquiry will not only be a description of what actually happened with the manufacturers or in the preparation of the legislation, but mainly how to approach any regulations in the future. the legislative regulatory measures adopted must ensure technically achievable conditions for inspection and uniform procedures for the type-approval of vehicles in the various eu countries.
mr president, i supported this report because cohesion policy is, of course, a subject that moves europe, and i think we should not be left behind. in this sense, it is important that we add even more intelligent specialisation, more science, to cohesion policy, this intelligent specialisation should be part of cohesion policy. multi-level governance should be expanded and its capacities increased. the participatory approach in cohesion policy should also be subordinated to regional decision-making. i supported this report, we discussed it in the committee on regional development and i think it is a good basis for further work on intelligent specialisation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because ris3 will allow our regions to remain competitive, create more quality jobs and achieve sustainable growth by helping them develop in the areas of their strength. put differently, smart specialisation means that these regions will be able to focus in priority sectors where they have the biggest competitive potential. i believe in the participatory approach of this strategy that concentrates on targeted research and innovation programmes but at the same time offers support for regions and businesses to take full advantage of the new technologies and knowledge. this way we will be able to bridge the development and innovation gap in europe.
in writing. - i voted against it. it is a useless resolution full of meaningless cries, such as that smart specialisation strategies should be an effective tool to tackle social, environmental, climate and energy challenges. nor do i agree that national authorities should invest in regional intelligence and in-depth analysis of large volumes of data, which will enable them to understand the development trends concerning regional enterprises in the global value chain. i do not think that is something that national authorities should do.
in writing. ‒ in an increasingly competitive global environment, it is crucial that the eu keeps improving its capacity to innovate. i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation, as these strategies will be valuable to overcome europe’s innovation gap and encourage growth. in fact, by combining and bringing together different policies, including those for entrepreneurship, education and innovation, ris3 enables regions to identify and select priority areas for their development and investments. ris3 is also a condition for receiving european structural and investment funds (esif), and therefore contributes to an increased performance orientation on the ground. moreover, i am very supportive of including a review of the strategies after 2017, in order to ensure their continuing relevance and maximise their output.
mr president, as regards territorial cooperation, i would like to point out that this is indeed a necessary precondition for cohesion policy to work. i think we should promote cohesion policy more, there are not so many stars to be seen. i think that cohesion policy, in the form of territorial cooperation, should show how regions can work together and bring additional benefits, whether it is the removal of disadvantages or the creation of jobs. regional gdp creation, that's very substantial. in this sense, it is important that territorial cohesion is part of cohesion policy, which will also be an integral part of european regional development policy. i am convinced that it is not good to weaken cohesion policy with special instruments, it has its place firmly in the eu agenda and i am very happy to be able to support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on etc because it is important to further develop and support the large number of programmes that play a crucial role in achieving our cohesion policy goals. such programmes will further improve our cross-border cooperation in many policy domains. besides transportation, we will see a positive impact in healthcare, research and innovation, and even environment. as it has great potential to enhance the economic, social and territorial development across european regions and boost competitiveness of our small and medium enterprises (smes), it will positively affect our citizens and businesses, and i am pleased to support such a decision.
in writing. on 13 september 2016, we voted on the report on european territorial cooperation best practices and innovative measures at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg. some 38% of europe's population live in border areas. as i am myself actively involved in the programme of cooperation between the moravian-silesian region and its border regions, and aware of the various problems that often plague this cooperation, this topic is quite close to my heart. the fundamental objective of european territorial cooperation is to reduce the impact of borders in order to reduce disparities between regions, to remove remaining obstacles to investment and to enhance cross-border cooperation, to strengthen cohesion and to promote the harmonious economic, social, cultural and territorial development of the union as a whole. european territorial cooperation, in my view, contributes to peace, stability and regional integration. the rapporteur has succeeded in integrating the need to develop a common approach to cross-border innovation, such as joint research, mobility programmes, joint research infrastructures, etc. the report mentions that cultural cooperation should be one of the objectives of european territorial cooperation and points out that cultural and educational cooperation needs to be promoted in border areas, as people living on opposite sides of the border often share a cultural and linguistic heritage. i think the report is fairly balanced, which is why i was happy to support it.
in writing. - i voted against it. it is a useless resolution full of meaningless cries, such as that smart specialisation strategies should be an effective tool to tackle social, environmental, climate and energy challenges. nor do i agree that national authorities should invest in regional intelligence and in-depth analysis of large volumes of data, which will enable them to understand the development trends concerning regional enterprises in the global value chain. i do not think that is something that national authorities should do.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on territorial cooperation in the eu. the report notes that approximately 38% of europe's population lives in border regions and highlights the importance of crossborder cooperation in cohesion policy. cross-border cooperation is a key tool for the development of border regions. it aims to improve connectivity and accessibility, enhance knowledge transfer and innovation, and address environmental concerns. i agree that better coordination, synergy and complementarity should be pursued and that cooperation and integration of wider strategic areas within the regions should be improved. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ european territorial cooperation, also known as interreg, has been essential in cross-border, transnational, and interregional cooperation. etc currently services 28 member states’ and regional development cooperation programmes outside of the eu. as etc now only represents 2.8% of the cohesion policy budget, i am disappointed in the budget cuts. these cuts will negatively impact areas like the single market, the digital market, mobility, energy, research, education, health, the environment and culture. i hope to preserve etc post-2020 by increasing its funds because of its important role and positive impact on the european integration project. it has played a significant part in enhancing economic, social and territorial potential of the regions, so increasing its future funding is integral in maximising the regions’ full utility. i call on the commission and member states to work together with parliament towards preserving european territorial cooperation as an important tool in the european integration process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which looked at best practices and innovative measures for european territorial cooperation (etc), an important instrument of cohesion policy designed to solve problems which transcend administrative borders and require common solutions. while the etc has been proven to be an effective instrument, best practice and particularly innovative measures have the potential to develop the fund even further by encouraging synergies between actors and programmes, reduce the administrative burden on beneficiaries, and simplify the implementation of its programmes. however, the etc budget of eur 10.1 billion represents 2.8% of the cohesion policy budget, which does not match the great challenges that etc has to meet.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this report because i consider european territorial cooperation to be one of the important instruments of cohesion policy, which helps to reduce disparities between the eu regions and promotes balanced territorial development. european territorial cooperation, in my view, contributes to improving crossborder cooperation and to the potential of different territories. at the same time, it promotes education and cultural exchange. from the czech republic's point of view, research institutions, universities and smes are the main partners for the eus.
in writing. - i voted against it. i didn't approve the establishment of the committee of inquiry. if volkswagen has cheated, it should be dealt with by the german police and courts, not by a committee of the european parliament. i do not agree with the call for the inquiry committee to continue its work.
in writing. ‒ today we have seen the first interim findings of the committee to investigate alleged offences or official misconduct in applying union law in connection with emission measurements in the automotive industry. it is a special body of the european parliament which does not interfere with the powers of national judicial or executive bodies. the emis committee shall be responsible for collecting and analysing information and data. in today's vote, we supported the further work of the emis committee, pledging all possible synergies and cooperation. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. i am very pleased that in december 2015 the european parliament decided to set up a committee of inquiry of 45 members to investigate alleged breaches or maladministration in the application of union law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive industry. the emis committee's inquiry focuses on compliance with the obligations laid down in regulation (ec) no 715/2007, with the task of collecting and analysing information to determine whether the commission and the member states had evidence of the use of disconnecting devices, and to collect and analyse information on the implementation of directive 2007/46/ec by the member states. as a social democrat, i am committed to greater transparency in today's world, and i therefore appreciate the possibility of following expert and witness testimony through a verbatim recording of the hearing in english, which will also be published on the emis website. i believe that the final report of the committee of inquiry will bring new insights which will be useful not only for the evaluation of this case around emissions in the automotive industry but also for the judicial authorities.
in writing. the interim report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive industry confirms the mandate and the continuation of the work of the committee of inquiry beyond the half-term of its mandate. it also calls on the parties concerned, in particular the european commission, to provide timely support and full transparency to the investigation process. that is why i supported the report. in view of the ongoing process of hearing invited guests, this is a purely technical document as the committee does not want to anticipate any conclusions, even partial ones, before the end of its own investigation. a summary of the committee's actual work and the findings will be contained in a final report to be adopted by the european parliament in accordance with its mandate after the year of work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft interim report on the emis committee, a committee which was set up in march this year to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of union law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector. i believe that the work done by this committee is crucial to establish the facts and clearly identify the figures responsible for the alleged offenses, but also to restore the credibility not only of the european automotive sector but also of our inquiry authorities. i hope that the committee’s work will continue being done in full transparency and in closer cooperation with the commission. i am looking forward to the committee’s final report in march next year.
in writing. - i voted to waive mr. uhelyi's immunity. the incident in question (the alleged slander of another member of parliament as having collaborated with the mafia) occurred before the beginning of his parliamentary term, so let the hungarian authorities deal with the matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of the member of the european parliament istván ujhelyi, who is being accused of defamatory statements made during a talk show broadcasted by a hungarian tv channel, towards an applicant for the post of vice-president of the hungarian parliament. waving the immunity will facilitate the enquiry in connection to criminal proceedings, as the statement was made at a time when istván ujhelyi was not a member of the european parliament, but a member of the national parliament. it therefore cannot be covered by the immunity provided by his status of member of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted to waive mr. crocetti's immunity, who is being prosecuted for libel. let the italian courts decide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of defending the privileges and immunities of the member of the european parliament rosario crocetta, who is accused by the court of palermo of making defamatory statements about alleged influence of organised crime on specific public procurement procedures. based on the evidence given by the committee on legal affairs, i agree that the statements made constitute an opinion expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament, even if they were made outside the precincts of the parliament. crocetta has always been very active in the fight against organised crime and its impact on the eu. in the name of freedom of speech, crocetta should therefore be allowed to use the immunity granted to him in this position.
in writing. - i voted to waive the immunity of mr. zarianopoulos. his prosecution has nothing to do with his parliamentary duties, let his case be dealt with by the competent greek authorities.
in writing. - today we voted to waive the immunity of our colleague from the kke, s. zarionopulos. we've already heard about his case at the legal affairs committee. after personal consultation with his office, i was informed that comrade zarianopulos himself wished to be deprived of parliamentary immunity in order to be able to properly defend and defend himself in proceedings before the national authorities. because i wanted to please him, i voted to waive his immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of waving the immunity of the member of parliament sotirios zarianopoulos, as requested by the public prosecutor at the greek supreme court. the proposed proceedings concern the fact that in 2011, the thessaloniki city council, which zarianopoulos was member of in that time, allegedly issued illegal permits to use public property for the purpose of setting up outside seating areas on pavements. the proposed proceedings are thus clearly unrelated to sotirios zarianopoulos’s status as a member of the european parliament. he should therefore not be granted the immunity provided by that position, but be prosecuted in his capacity as a former member of that city council.
in writing. following the accession of the republic of croatia, the eu customs union expanded and a compensatory arrangement had to be negotiated with the members of the world trade organisation, as the eu external customs tariff led to an increase in duties. i have decided to support the resolution on the conclusion of the agreement with china because this settlement is not only appropriate but also in line with previous practice and the wto framework and the eu's efforts to respect the rules of the multilateral trading regime.
in writing. - i got held up. i have no objection to the association of croatia to the agreement with china which increases the relevant import quotas in connection with the enlargement of the eu to include croatia.
in writing. ‒ the eu has extended its customs union with the accession of croatia. therefore, under wto rules, it is now obliged to negotiate with its members for a change in the rules and a compensatory adjustment. this compensation is necessary in view of the increase of duties above the level to which croatia has committed itself at the wto. i voted in favour of this technical report, which formally allows the revised agreement between china and the european commission to enter into force.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament giving its consent to the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and china in connection with the accession of croatia to the eu, thereby enlarging the eu customs union and therefore obliging the eu to open negotiations with china on the customs concession schedule of croatia under wto rules. this is a beneficial step which will result in a reduction in the contractual duty rate fixed by the common customs tariff or an increase in the quota for certain agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-china agreement relating to the accession of croatia, which will restore china’s previous trading rights. in fact, these had been slightly eroded due to the enlargement of the eu customs union when croatia joined the eu in 2013. in order to compensate for the losses, the agreement will therefore increase tariff rate quotas, and lower the current bound tariff rates as the instruments of compensation for the chinese products that were involved. i believe it is important that multilateral rules-based trading regime, with the wto at its centre, are upheld and further developed.
in writing. ‒ china is a strong economic partner for the eu, and that is why i voted in favour of this agreement, which will help the eu and china to continue to have good and functioning trade relations. the accession of croatia to the european union has enlarged the european customs union. therefore, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the eu had to renegotiate the rights relating to the tariff of croatia in order to allow for a possible offsetting of duties.
in writing. following the accession of the republic of croatia, the eu customs union expanded and a compensatory arrangement had to be negotiated with the members of the world trade organisation, as the eu external customs tariff led to an increase in duties. i voted in favour of the resolution on the conclusion of the agreement with the eastern republic of uruguay, as the settlement is in line with previous practice and the wto framework, as well as with the eu's efforts to respect the rules of the multilateral trading regime.
in writing. - i got held up. i have no objection to the association of croatia to the agreement with uruguay, which will extend the beef import quota in connection with the accession of croatia to the eu.
‒ the eu's external tariff leads to an increase in duties. it was therefore necessary for the european parliament to give its consent to this report and thereby to give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the eu and uruguay concerning the amendment of concessions in the constitution of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament giving its consent to the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and uruguay in connection with the accession of croatia to the eu, thereby enlarging the eu customs union and therefore obliging the eu to open negotiations with uruguay on the customs concessions list of croatia under wto rules. this is a logical step in the wake of the eu enlargement with croatia, which is a positive circumstance not only for croatia but also for the current eu member states.
in writing. ‒ when the republic of croatia joined the eu in 2013, the eu’s customs union was enlarged. under wto rules, it was therefore required to enter into negotiations with uruguay regarding the tariff schedule of croatia in order to agree on a compensatory adjustment, as the eu’s external tariff regime had seen its tariffs increase. this is why i voted in favour of the eu-uruguay agreement relating to the accession of croatia. the eu will now incorporate in its schedule for the customs territory of the eu 28 that of the eu 27, with modifications regarding the tariff rate quotas on bovine meat.
in writing. ‒ in the case of mr lazarou, the renewal of the previous mandate is in question. i supported his re-appointment as a member of the european court of auditors, with whom we work closely within the committee on budgetary control. the european court of auditors is composed of a college of 28 members, each nominated by an eu member state. their mandate may be renewed. i already supported mr lazarou in the vote in committee, as his previous experience confirmed his excellent qualifications for the post.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of renewing the nomination of lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors. based on his long-standing experience in public service in cyprus as well as his valuable performance as a member of the court of auditors until now, i am certain that lazaros stavrou lazarou will continue to perform his job at the best of his capacity and in the best interest of the european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the nomination of a new member of the european court of auditors, with whom we work closely within the committee on budgetary control. i have already supported mr figueiredo in the committee vote, and i consider him to be fully competent for the post. he was elected to the european court of auditors for a six-year term. mr figueiredo replaces mr caldeiro, outgoing president of the european court of auditors. the new president shall be elected by the members of the court of auditors from among their number for a term of three years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of nominating joão figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors. in the light of his robust professional experience, i trust that he will successfully monitor the implementation of the budget of the european union in an independent and competent manner
in writing. ‒ i voted against nominating leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors. despite his proven professional experience, his statements on the panama papers scandal disqualify him from becoming a member of this court, at this point in time. in the wake of the scandal, brincat had defended a cabinet minister exposed in the panama papers, voting against the government’s no-confidence motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of expressing the european parliament's agreement with the council's position on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries, as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures, as the rules on trade policy decision-making procedures need to be adapted to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. the commission therefore undertook to present, by the end of the seventh parliamentary term, a second wave of adaptations to the procedure for deliberations in committees concerning legal acts referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny and proposed an amendment to the community statistics regulation. the debate is only now taking place, as the new text now also reflects the newly concluded interinstitutional agreement on better law-making.
in writing. ‒ the lisbon treaty introduced new decision-making rules in trade policy related to the use of delegated and implementing acts by the commission. i voted in favour of the regulation on statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries, as this will allow the newly negotiated decision-making rules to finally be adopted. in fact, negotiations regarding these new rules had been suspended while waiting for the inter-institutional agreement on better law-making to be adopted in 2015, which provides among other things for a horizontal solution regarding the consultation of member states’ experts in preparation of delegated acts.
in writing. natural gas and electricity prices are interesting from a number of points of view. one of the most important reasons why these prices should be compulsorily monitored in the long term is the comparability of the data collected. both gas and electricity supply are typical network industries at present. fortunately, electricity and gas parameters are common across the eu (voltage stability and frequency for alternating current, quality parameters for natural gas). however, the price to the final consumer has at least two components, the price per quantity (normal cubic metres of gas, kwh) and the price per delivery. in particular, for the various 'prices for supply', we see the need to define which charges will be included in the price of energy under the heading of transport, or network use, and which under the heading of the amount of energy consumed. these are in particular excise duties and variously structured network charges. the regulation aims to harmonise the methodology for reporting prices and thus to remove any uncertainties identified. this is how we can obtain reliable statistical information. the reference periods, the frequency of data transmission and the possibility of granting derogations are defined. the report is quite clear, and i hope that the practical application of this regulation will not be subject to any major ambiguities. since the adoption of this regulation repeals directive 2008/92/ec, there is no increase in the number of existing eu directives and regulations. i therefore support the adoption of the report.
in writing. on 13 september 2016, we voted on the report on the draft regulation on european gas and electricity price statistics at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg. gas and electricity price statistics are part of the european energy statistics system managed by eurostat. the aim of this regulation is to transform the collection of data on natural gas and electricity prices charged to final customers households from a voluntary basis to a mandatory one. i personally support the idea of collecting data on the prices of natural gas and electricity paid by consumers in different countries, as this will increase transparency and may help protect households and final consumers from the questionable pricing practices of some energy and gas suppliers. this step is also necessary for the quality of the electricity and gas price survey data. however, the report itself is written in the spirit of the eu moving towards a complete, common internal energy market, which i cannot agree with at all. i have long held the view that the issue of energy supply and production is a matter for the sovereign powers of the national states alone and should not be transferred to the pan-european level. the debate on the document itself was not helped by the fact that some of my colleagues tried to insert changes in the text in favour of nuclear energy. that's why i had to abstain.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the extension of the scope of mandatory reporting for statistical purposes, which is unnecessarily burdensome for companies.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed a report setting out the procedure for collecting and transmitting statistical data to the european commission and eurostat respectively on gas and electricity prices. the regulation we discussed today aims to make the collection of data compulsory rather than voluntary. i would probably have no problem with that in principle, although i don't see any convincing guarantees of consumer/customer data protection in the regulation. however, i do not agree that the rapporteur is proposing changes to the cost breakdown, nor does the proposal specify who will be responsible for the price breakdown, nor does it define the term 'fees'. these shortcomings are the reason why i abstained from voting.
in writing. i supported the report on the regulation which aims to make data collection compulsory rather than voluntary, so that data are available for the largest possible part of the market and in high quality. since price data should continue to be collected by the competent national authorities, no additional bureaucratic burden should be imposed. some provisions concerning the authorities carrying out the collection and the companies providing the data are being simplified. it should also avoid misunderstandings that could, in the extreme, lead to data sets not being comparable. it is also necessary to define 'charges' in order to correct the current unsatisfactory situation where it is possible to shift charges from the grid to energy and vice versa. the approved changes to the cost structure should better reflect the pricing structure.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on proposal for a regulation on european statistics on natural gas and electricity prices, i believe that harmonised methodology for data collection in the field of energy will help to recognize differences and disparities between the member states. clear and objective statistics will then be an important basis for setting up an eu-wide policies and appropriate measures in the field of energy.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of measures that will lead to a better functioning and competitive energy market, and thus lower and more predictable energy prices for our large and small consumers. as it will also improve our cross-border cooperation on energy policy, it will help secure our energy supply and decrease our dependence on suppliers from outside the eu. as this is an important step to achieve our priorities on energy and climate issues, i gladly voted in support of this resolution.
in writing. the langen report is an interesting compromise between the demands of those who want to phase out all non-renewable energy production and those who are aware of the potential pitfalls of doing so. among renewable sources, hydropower is the key in terms of installed capacity, followed by wind power and photovoltaic power. so geothermal energy is the only stable source of energy in the long term. given this instability (sun, wind, water determine the unreliability of these sources), it is necessary to provide either backup sources or stabilising capacities that can be flexibly replenished in the event of a lack of energy in the grid. the report acknowledges the emergence of a new class of energy consumers who are also energy producers, and notes the disconnectedness of the european electricity market both within and outside the eu. the report lacks attention to the poor state of the interconnection of the high voltage networks, which is a key point for ensuring the future security of electricity supply. energy must not only be produced but also transmitted reliably.
in writing. on 13 september 2016, we voted on the report 'towards a new energy market organisation' at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg. the electricity market is constantly changing and for electricity produced from renewable sources, the current overall share of electricity produced is expected to increase from 25% to 50% by 2030. the commission initiative discussed in the report aims to improve the functioning of the internal electricity market so that electricity can be moved to where and when it is needed most, while fully integrating the growing share of energy from renewable sources. which is, of course, a laudable effort. unfortunately, the commission is doing it all wrong again. those of you who have been following me for a while now know that for a number of reasons, i'm not a big fan of renewable energy. that is why i also supported the amendments calling for the phasing out of subsidies for renewable energy. i am also not in favour of further strengthening the powers of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, as i believe that this area is purely and solely a matter for national competence. since the final version of the report did not pass in a form that i could accept, i decided not to support this report and voted against the wording of the report.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report 'supports the increasing share of renewable energy in the eu', which i do not support. i also disagree with the call for 'a regulatory framework that would lead end-users to self-generate and store energy'.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on the new energy market organisation. the report places too much emphasis on the involvement of the european fund for strategic investments, which our group has always opposed. furthermore, it only emphasises the importance of market forces without any involvement of consumers and their attitudes. strengthening the role of acer and other european agencies in the field of energy is also not an idea i could support. a number of amendments proposed by our group, such as a greater focus on renewable energy sources, were not adopted. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, which i consider balanced, since it emphasises, among other things, the right of member states to determine the conditions for the use and composition of their own energy resources. i agree with the call to strengthen acer's role and appreciate that the report places a strong emphasis on the promotion of digital technologies in the context of the development of an ambitious energy sector digitisation strategy, including the deployment of smart grids and smart metering, the development of mobile applications, internet platforms and data nodes.
in writing. i supported this own-initiative report, which relates to the forthcoming legislation on the energy market functioning scheme, which will be published in december. in europe today, the way energy is produced and supplied is changing and the market environment needs to adapt to this. the biggest challenge for the administration will be to define a mechanism whereby national governments will compensate companies for guaranteeing a certain capacity of the energy market in cases of a reduction in energy supply, e.g. in the case of a black out, while at the same time minimising the disturbance of the market environment and/or protecting final consumers from an inadequate increase in the price of electricity. i am pleased that the proposals of our political group, which have set out a set of criteria which must be met before such a mechanism can be introduced, have already been taken into account in the itre committee.
in writing. ‒ this own initiative report endorsed by the european parliament is the first reaction to the commission’s communication from july 2015. as a shadow rapporteur i supported the report on the new energy market design as proposed by the rapporteur w. langen as a result of negotiations between the groups. i consider this text to be well-balanced, with market-based approach, covering all important issues related to the eu’s energy market including reform of ets or role of acer. it is not an easy task to bring forward a solution for transformation of the entire market design, but i believe this report will serve as an good first step towards this target.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that new sustainable energy strategies, such as self-generation and sustainable use of organic waste, could help us to decrease our dependency on high-carbon infrastructure and increase, on the other hand, energy efficiency in rural buildings. i would be also in favour of a new attractive financing system to promote new technologies for heating households using renewable energy sources as well as of modernisation of old and inefficient heating systems and of deep renovation of buildings with improved thermal insulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this new strategy because cooling and heating represent the largest part of the demand for energy services in the eu and increasing efficiency in their use is essential to reduce the costs associated with them, while achieving co2 reductions and improving the security of energy supply. one of the key steps of this strategy is to financially support building owners to carry out large-scale thermal renovation of buildings. this strategy is therefore not only beneficial for these owners, but also for their tenants and, last but not least, for the environment.
in writing. on 13 september 2016, we voted on the report on the eu heating and cooling strategy at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg. i was the shadow rapporteur on the envi sub-report on this document, for which the itre committee was primarily responsible. so i followed the document's further fate very closely. the heating problem is a key factor in ensuring clean air, particularly in the region where i come from. heating and cooling use half of the eu's total energy generated, and much of it is wasted. of the new strategy presented by the commission, the areas on which the eu intends to focus in the coming years are, for me personally, the most important and key: facilitating the renovation and reconstruction of buildings; the integration of electrical systems with heating and cooling systems into a single functional unit and the increased use of waste heat and cold produced by industry. however, what i consider to be the most positive aspect of this report is that the rapporteur also understood the local nature and potential of heating and cooling and in the report he directly stated that more decentralised and flexible energy systems with energy and heat sources located closer to each other and to the place of consumption can facilitate and make overall energy production more efficient. for these reasons, i was happy to support the report.
- i voted against. the report contains nonsensical rhetoric, such as that a systemic approach to refrigeration is necessary, both for buildings and for the transport of refrigerated goods. you can do your own cooling in your cooling cars and at home. the report also calls for the introduction of new subsidies to support renewable energy sources, which i do not agree with.
‒ the heating and cooling problem is a major one. a number of buildings in the eu, as well as in the czech republic, are obsolete and lose heat when heated. this leads to energy waste, while many eu citizens are facing energy poverty. in the report, we call on the commission to present a strategy to combat energy waste. it is necessary to invest in the research and development of new more efficient heating techniques in order to avoid unnecessary losses, which could also result in lower prices for the final consumer. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i supported the report on a heating and cooling strategy that will enable member states to achieve the eu's climate and energy policy goals through sustainable and cost-effective solutions. efficiently achievable energy savings are a key way to achieve climate goals. given the wide diversity of heating and cooling sectors in the member states, due to their different energy mix, climatic conditions, energy efficiency levels of buildings and industrial intensity, flexibility should be ensured in selecting appropriate solutions according to the strategy. the main focus should be on the security of energy supply problems in the eu related to the security of heat supply. in this respect, the commission should therefore examine ways to further promote the diversification of heating sources and to accelerate the wider use of renewable heat technologies.
‒ energy efficiency is a topic i have been working on for a long time, and i have tabled a number of my amendments to this report and supported the final text in plenary. almost 50% of the eu's final energy demand is used for heating and cooling, 80% of which is used in buildings. moreover, considering that every additional 1% increase in energy savings reduces gas imports by 2,6%, it is natural that this should encourage member states to develop long-term heating and cooling strategies based on an integrated approach, harmonised mapping and evaluation in accordance with article 14 of the energy efficiency directive. it is important to remember that while a large proportion of current buildings in europe suffer from energy waste due to poor insulation and outdated and inefficient heating systems, energy poverty affects almost 11% of the eu population. the best solution to this problem, i see, is to invest in thermal renovation buildings, which is the most efficient way to use energy and reduce co2 emissions. in addition, the need to replace obsolete district heating plants with small, high-performance combined heat and power plants is urgent.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has published its´ strategy for heating and cooling in february 2016 as a part of so-called winter package. this strategy does not include any legislative measures, it is however important to focus on this area as the heating and cooling in buildings and industry accounts for more than 50% of total energy consumption in the eu. i supported the report by the rapporteur a. gierek, i believe he presented vital ideas for future heating and cooling systems. i however don´t agree that there should be a role for the european commission to play in the field of training and certification of practitioners in the field of energy efficiency, therefore i abstained on article 98 and i also do not support the vision that the eu and european commission should be made responsible for measures related to the energy poverty in certain member states.
in writing. ‒ in view of the fact that there are 23 million smes registered within the european union providing more than 100 million jobs, i voted for this report. i am very much in favour of implementation of measures that will enhance their competitiveness. i believe that this can be achieved through financial support provided by european structural and investment funds, by providing smes with microcredits, by simplifying mechanism that will help the business environment and speeding up the process of setting up of new businesses and by decreasing excessive bureaucracy that prevents smes from applying for the available funds. i would be in favour of member states exchanging more data, knowledge and best practices in this regard. thank you.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because improving the competitiveness of smes is of fundamental importance for the european economy, both in terms of employment and competitiveness, and is an important element of cohesion policy. it is therefore appropriate to support this thematic objective of the eu europe 2020 strategy, as in total the relevant funds will help to support around 801 500 companies and it is estimated that 354 300 new jobs will be created.
in writing. on 13 september 2016, at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, we voted on the report on the implementation of the thematic objective 'enhancing the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises'. smes are crucial to the economies of eu regions, both in terms of employment and competitiveness. moreover, it must be remembered that cohesion policy is one of the main instruments for investment in growth and job creation in the eu. since my colleagues also succeeded in getting the report to explicitly mention, among other things, that the economic and financial crisis has increased not only poverty and social exclusion but also long-term unemployment, youth unemployment and social inequality in many member states, and that the problems currently faced by smes are partly due to the fact that the austerity measures implemented by member states have dampened demand, i was able to endorse the wording of the report. i also regard it as a positive change to better integrate the criticism of financial instruments, where the text points to the lack of evidence on the outputs and results of financial instruments and the very loose linkage of these financial instruments to eu overarching objectives and priorities, and calls on the commission to further improve grant-making and not to promote the use of financial instruments as the primary method of financing.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report praises subsidies for smes and calls for them to be increased. i believe that small, medium and large businesses should compete fairly in the marketplace, without subsidies.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed the situation of smes in the eu. this is a sector that creates 2 out of 3 private sector jobs and provides about 100 million jobs in total. the report focuses on how to make it easier for smes to access finance, for example through cohesion policy, and on better credit policy. the report also stresses the need for transparency in all financial instruments, as well as the need to focus on reducing unnecessary administrative burdens and simplifying legislation in the area of smes. i supported the report.
in writing. i supported the report, which highlights, among other things, the difficulties smes face in accessing diversified sources of finance. a coordinated approach by the european investment bank and the european investment fund would help to improve the situation. another problem is the obstacles to the wide availability of esi funds to smes, which include the administrative burden, the high number of support schemes, the complexity of rules and procedures, the delay in the issuing of administrative regulations and the risk of gold plating. measures should therefore be taken to reduce the administrative burden and to simplify the management procedures of the esi funds on the part of smes, with particular emphasis on requirements relating to auditing, management flexibility, risk assessment and continuous evaluation, control system and compliance with competition rules and other eu policies. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. high costs of complying with statistical, tax or other obligations are common. the eu can therefore only act indirectly to reduce these costs.
‒ statistics show that small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are of crucial importance to the economy of eu regions, both in terms of employment and competitiveness. and it is precisely to support predominantly small and medium-sized enterprises that eur 70 billion was allocated in the 2007-2013 period, with the help of cohesion policy. the objective is to double this amount between 2014 and 2020. i support the intention to support smes with around eur 94 billion over the 2014-2020 programming period, but i believe that even more support is needed for smes. if the objectives set out in this report can be achieved, including the support of more than 800 000 companies, which will directly create more than 350 000 new jobs, i would consider this a great success for the european union's employment policy. i would personally like to see this legislation achieve another equally important objective, namely reducing production costs and the associated productivity gains, which would prevent environmental damage and lead to a transition to a low-carbon economy.
in writing. ‒ smes are an indispensable driving force for the eu economy, in terms of growth, employment and competitiveness, as they account for around 99% of all businesses and provide over 100 million jobs in the eu. however, they often face multiple challenges due to their size. this is why i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the thematic objective ‘enhancing the competitiveness of smes’, which is one of the objectives of the esi funds. this should be done by simplifying access to credit and encouraging innovation, with a special focus on the circular economy, by increasing coordination and consistency among all eu investment policies, by encouraging the involvement of local authorities and smes themselves in the implementation of programmes. it is particularly important to continue removing administrative burden for smes when managing esi funds by bringing the cohesion policy in line with the reality of smes.
in writing. ‒ smes are an essential part of a modern economy and a driving force for economic growth in any country, which is why i supported this report on ways to increase their competitiveness. the report provides an assessment of the current situation and at the same time provides possible ways forward. i am always very pleased to see that czech companies are able to compete on world markets, despite obstacles such as a lack of staff or systematic refusal to grant export licences. i believe that the european union should support and help smes to have better access to finance, to skilled workers and to easy access to the global market.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not think that regions with alpine regions should have any special eu programmes. the report says that the alpine regions need action plans. i do not agree with the commission's call to propose a solution to bring broadband internet to all remote corners of the alps. the european commission is not supposed to deal with the internet in the alps, it's the internet providers that have to deal with it based on customer demand.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on the alpine region and the eu strategy for its development. after several months of negotiations, it was agreed that the region should be given greater prosperity and cohesion, a more locally-oriented approach to the development of the alpine regions should be developed, sustainable and competitive tourism should be promoted by improving the accessibility of offers and services, and a special chapter should be devoted to the protection of the exceptional alpine lake system. furthermore, there is a need to focus on the use and improvement of existing infrastructure and the development of innovative logistics systems. i voted in favour of the draft report.
‒ social cohesion is essential for the harmonious and balanced development of the european union. it is therefore the union's duty to support regions which are disadvantaged by natural conditions, particularly vulnerable to climate change or seasonal influences, and thus to ensure their sustainable and integrated development. the alpine region is a dynamic area in europe, home not only to 80 million people from 7 european countries, but also to unique animal and plant species. all of them are threatened by global warming and the associated melting of glaciers, which has negative impacts on the sustainability of alpine ecosystems and the economic development of the region. i therefore welcome and voted for the european parliament's report which takes account of the need to address the causes of climate change through various measures in the fields of energy, transport and investment in modern technologies. the renewable energy sources that the alps are rich in have great potential in this respect. but we must not forget the balance with other vital functions of alpine forests, such as flood prevention and protection against landslides and avalanches. i agree with the report that these problems need to be tackled in a coordinated way through a comprehensive transnational plan to combat glacier melt, which i believe should cover all the related issues.
in writing. ‒ i believe the eu strategy for the alpine region has a potential to address the main regional problems. the strategy covers over 80 million people from 7 countries and 48 regions within and outside the eu. it will be in addition to various cooperation agreements, focusing on the issues of transportation shortage, logistical manufacturing concerns, and climate change. i am pleased by the full report from the committee on regional development which provides solutions to the common problems and challenges facing the alpine region, laying the groundwork for the implementation of the strategy. the strategy is a bottom up approach that takes into account local needs while also participating in cross-border, transnational, and interregional coordination and cooperation, focusing on a few pillar issues. these issues include improving competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion, increasing accessibility and transportation links, and ensuring cultural and environmental sustainability. i urge local, regional and national authorities to take action together to implement the eu strategy for the alpine region to solve the major problems facing their region.
in writing. ‒ the alpine region, inhabited by more than 80 million, has a strong human, natural, economic and cultural appeal. it represents a huge potential for economic growth but also for increased cooperation between historically and politically divided areas at the heart of europe. however, the economically and environmentally inconsistent development of the region has led to depopulation, especially of young people, and left it extremely vulnerable to the effects of climate change. this is why i voted in favour of the report on an eu strategy for the alpine region, which i see as a central initiative to halt this trend. it will do so by increasing its competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion, by improving its accessibility and transport links, and by protecting the alpine heritage and promoting sustainable use of natural and cultural resources.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as i find the eu trust fund for africa very important. i welcome the suggestion concerning disbursement of funds in more quick and flexible manner in an emergency situation such as migration and refugee crisis in terms of funding of recipient country governments. civil society actors and other stakeholders active in this field need to be supported as soon as possible. to allow the trust fund to develop its full potential, eu member states have to keep their financial pledges and contribute to the fund as discussed.
in writing. ‒ by making financial assistance more readily and flexibly available to the african countries in need in an emergency situation, the goal of this trust fund is to tackle the root causes of migration. i believe that this resolution will bring about more economic opportunities and thus enhance security, development, and resilience on the continent, a key element in our quest to stabilise the migration crisis. it should be noted, however, that full transparency and monitoring of such funds needs to be ensured to prevent abuse. despite this challenge, i look forward to our deepened collaboration with african countries and am pleased i was able to support this resolution.
in writing. on 13 september 2016, we voted in plenary on the report on the eu trust fund for africa: implications for development and humanitarian aid. and this, i think, is where we get to one of the roots of the current migration crisis. you know, i've long advocated that we address the problems that bring people from other cultures and countries to us, right in the heart of the problem, in their own home. this can only be achieved by resolving or at least greatly reducing the current conflicts in these countries, while also significantly improving the living standards and future prospects of their inhabitants. of course, the various eu development funds should also help. although financial allocations from this trust fund are focused on least developed countries, the development of civil society, local authorities' cooperation with international organisations and human rights commitments, there are many areas where the current set-up fails. financial assistance in this area should be directed primarily at addressing the real causes of poverty in the countries of origin of current migrants, such as the plundering and exploitation of human and natural resources by multinational companies, land grabbing, support by some states for autocratic and corrupt governments or the arms trade. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. - i voted against it. i don't agree with increasing development aid to africa. i stand for trade, not aid african countries need the eu to remove import quotas and tariffs, not to send charity.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on the trust fund for africa, which was set up following the valletta summit in 2015. the purpose of this fund should be, inter alia, to enable funds to be mobilised more quickly and flexibly in emergency situations, such as those linked to the migration crisis. in the report on the guarantees, we criticise the commission's action, which breached the financial rules by using only the trust fund. we call for a repair. at the same time, the report warns of the risk of misuse of eu development aid, especially in countries affected by conflict, and recalls that the funds must be used for development purposes and strictly follow development objectives, focusing on poverty reduction, stability and security in the countries concerned. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the report concerns one of the three eu trust funds that are necessary to ensure a rapid and comprehensive response to humanitarian crises, including those of a long-term nature. however, the financial contributions from the member states are still too low, representing only a small fraction of the union contribution and far below the level of the commitment accepted, namely only 4,5% of the declared eur 1,8 billion. in order to achieve full effectiveness, it is necessary to mobilise funds in emergency situations more quickly and flexibly and to mobilise different sources of funding in order to address the migration and refugee crisis in its multiple dimensions. if the eu countries are not willing to invest more in similar objectives and we fail to contribute to improving the quality of life in these parts of the world, it will not be surprising if the efforts of the people there to seek a new, better life in the eu increase again.
in writing. i voted to establish an emergency trust fund to stabilize and address the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in africa. the establishment is, in the current situation, a necessary step to address the causes of irregular migration at the place of origin, not just its consequences. but if we want to make the fund a really functional tool that will have an impact on the stabilization of our neighbourhood, we must not make the same mistakes as the previous trust funds. the fundamental question is how to ensure sufficient financial support from the member states, as the fund currently has far less than the resources it needs to meet all its declared objectives. member states are releasing their resources too slowly, despite the pressure of illegal migration. it is unacceptable that the budgetary authority of the european parliament should continue to be circumvented as it has been so far. considering that almost 30 percent of all foreign aid is provided through the european development fund outside the eu budget, this is a huge amount that lacks democratic legitimacy. nor is the back-check in the form of parliament's discharge to the commission a sufficient guarantee of the transparency of the use made of the edf. i therefore agree with the motion for a resolution of the european parliament that there is a need to achieve greater synergy between the various instruments of external aid by incorporating the european development fund into the budget.
in writing. ‒ i am persuaded that the eu trust fund for africa could help to stabilise the region and largely contribute to migration management. by focusing the monetary support on social and democratic issues like education, good governance, the environment and employment, we fight the root causes of destabilisation and forced displacement. this aims to solve a small piece of the puzzle of the larger migration crisis, which we must continue to work diligently on. i believe these funds must be better monitored for transparency by the european parliament to ensure they promote resilience, economic opportunities, gender equality and development, as opposed to security measures and border control. last year all nations agreed on the amount of contributions, and it is critical that each member state follows through on their pledge. currently, only 4.5% of the promised funds are provided, while all are necessary to fulfil on our commitments to stabilise the region and better manage the migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ although i actively support measures to increase the number of women actively participating in the labour market, i did not support this report. they do not consider it appropriate for us to adopt directives at eu level on the issue of compulsory paternity leave or the harmonisation of the conditions for maternity or parental leave. eu member states and their citizens should be left to choose. as one of the current challenges is the continuous decline in the birth rate in eu countries, we should primarily look for solutions that support women on maternity leave and women with children so that they are not discriminated against when they return to the labour market or in the further course of their professional careers.
in writing. i voted against it. i believe that maternity policy and parental benefits should remain the responsibility of the individual states and the eu should not interfere. i do not agree with the challenge that parental leave should be shared between both parents. let the parents decide how to divide up the child care. i also disagree with the claim that lgbti people face gender-specific barriers at work that have an adverse impact on their wellbeing at work and threaten their mental health and that therefore the commission and the member states should take further steps to address these adverse conditions.
‒ it is very difficult, if not impossible, for women, mothers in particular, to reconcile their work and private lives. we voted today on a report which highlights these problems. i agree with a number of the ideas in the text, such as that the policies needed to achieve work-life balance must focus on women's access to the labour market and the sharing of domestic and care work between men and women. furthermore, efforts should be made to create a coherent policy framework, supported by collective bargaining and collective agreements, to allow for a better balance between care, work and private life. the rapporteurs also mention the need to enshrine the right of every woman to maternity and parental leave, as well as the need to apply the principle of gender equality. i voted in favour of the report.
in today's hectic world, it is very difficult to find the right balance between family and career. especially for women in the role of mother and caregiver, it is not easy to find employment that allows them to balance their life with caring for others. many women, despite their high qualifications and higher education, are underrepresented in the labour market and are at a much higher risk of social exclusion and poverty. the issue also has a major impact on children, whose development and potential depend on their upbringing and need for time with their parents. the current demographic situation, with the ageing of the european population, must also be taken into account. the choice between family life and career thus often influences the decision whether to start a family and have children. this dilemma therefore threatens the future of europe. these reasons have led me to support this report, which responds to the european commission's plans to improve work-life balance. it also proposes various initiatives to modernise existing eu legislation and adopts new eu directives on paternity and carers' leave.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted today on an own-initiative report on creating favourable conditions for work-life balance in the labour market. i think it is important that the european parliament is dealing with the negative demographic trends in the european union. the text in the introduction recalls the decline in the eu birth rate, which is an important warning. for the reasons stated above, i would expect the european parliament to encourage member states to adopt pro-family policies. instead, the european parliament calls on the commission and the member states to recognise and also promote all the different forms of relationships which are intended to replace the traditional family, such as registered partnerships or 'same-sex parents', etc. these unacceptable proposals have nothing to do with the original objective of the report and interfere with the competences of the member states. i also find it unacceptable that the european parliament should call on the european commission to submit a directive on compulsory two weeks of fully paid paternity leave. paternity leave, yes, but it has to be on a voluntary basis. despite the original good intention of the resolution, i found the resulting form unacceptable and therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the reconciliation of professional, private and family life for women as well as for men is crucial not only for the well-being, cohesion and productivity of our societies, but also in view of the demographic slowdown in europe. however, i do not believe that policies in this area should be decided at the level of the european union, which is why i voted against this report. determining this work-life balance is very dependent on the specificities of each member state’s cultural, societal and historical dynamics, which is why i am convinced that such decisions but should remain in the hands of national policy-makers.
in writing. ‒ i could not support this report, even though it contains some good ideas. from my perspective, she was very unbalanced. however, the main reason for my disagreement is the issue of subsidiarity. the european union has no right to intervene in this matter in my view. it is for the member states to address such issues themselves at national level.
mr president, mrs mogherini, the european union has been negotiating with turkey for decades to join the eu, and turkish president erdogan has a very different idea of law and democracy than we do. his sweeping purges of education and the judiciary are cementing his power after the military coup. he wants to impose the death penalty and take revenge on his enemies. turkey, our supposed nato ally, is massacring in a neighboring country the kurds who are trying to fight the greatest evil of our time - the islamic state. so you are negotiating with a country like this to join the eu and half an hour ago you had the audacity to criticize poland again for threatening the rule of law. aren't you ashamed of yourself? mr. schulz's visit to turkey last week legitimized the erdogan government. do you really want turkey in the eu? you want turkey in schengen? do you want 100 turks sitting in this room voting with us on immigration policy, on men's and women's rights? turkey is not in europe and does not belong to the eu, and i therefore call on the european council to end the eu membership negotiations with turkey immediately.
mr president, last autumn i visited rojava, a kurdish-controlled area in northern syria. i was a guest of the headquarters of the people's defense forces, known as the ypg. i've driven their armed detachment through rojava for hundreds of kilometers. i visited the city of kobani, which was destroyed by isil. it was mainly the defenders of kobani who tried to liberate the territory west of the euphrates from isis this year. their offensive was foiled by the intervention of the turkish army, which for the first time in the conflict crossed the turkish-syrian border and openly bombed the positions of the kurdish forces. turkey has escalated the conflict so dangerously. the turkish intervention is further proof that turkey cannot rationalize its nationalist policies. they are also developing a spiral of national hatred on their own territory. he doesn't understand that kurdish terror is a response to unprecedented anti-kurdish state terror. turkey justifies its anti-kurdish military incursions at home and in northern iraq and syria by citing the fight against terrorism. he justifies his actions ideologically by referring to marxist forms of terrorism. the kurdish resistance is indeed broad-spectrum, but its ideological labeling is only a manifestation of turkish weakness. the ypg units have red stars on their patches, but they are not fighting for a bright communist future, but for their physical survival. the democratic forces in turkey should realize that.
we talk about the implementation of the eu-turkey agreement as if nothing had happened, but the situation has changed significantly since the agreement was concluded! for example, we meps cannot go to ankara next week because there are legitimate concerns about the inability of the turkish authorities to secure the purpose of our visit. i am very concerned about this situation in view of turkey's push for visa-free travel and also in view of the overall developments in turkey. if we cannot see the situation in turkey in person, if turkey does not meet the conditions, we will not be able to agree to visa-free travel. i do not wish to punish turkish citizens who want to travel to the eu for president erdogan's mistakes, but we must show that we do not agree with the way the ruling akp party is behaving, which no longer punishes coup plotters but arbitrarily represses people who are accused without evidence of collaborating with coup plotters. officials and friends of officials are promoted to the top posts of offices, schools, and businesses. the president is using the situation to intensify the persecution of kurds and independent journalists, such as journalist asli erdogan. it is precisely because turkey is a strategic partner that we must be more vigilant about its dangerous orientation towards dictatorship, violence and putin. we should be able to tell where our boundaries are, and we can't just pretend like nothing's going on!
in writing. what has been happening in turkey for some time, and especially what we witnessed in july, completely excludes this country from any european civilized society. given the inadequate response from president erdogan, i am increasingly concerned that turkey is on the path to an authoritarian state. this country is moving further and further away from democracy, the rule of law and, ultimately, secularism. if turkey wants to continue to be treated as a partner by the eu, it must act as a state of law, in which every accused has the right to a fair and independent trial. the events of the summer must never happen again.
vpc/hr. mr president, first of all, thank you for organising this debate at this crucial moment in the history of the gabonese republic. gabon may seem a small country, but its potential is immense. it's not just about the vast natural resources, with a per capita income that's significantly higher than most african countries. the people of gabon have faith in democracy. the elections were peaceful and the turnout was high. the people of gabon are confident that through the democratic process, the country will more effectively exploit its own potential. it is therefore important to go beyond the current crisis, to put an end to all forms of violence and to restore the confidence of the gabonese people in the country's institutions. that is the objective of the european union. this is also the objective pursued by the election observation mission in its daily work. let me thank the chief observer, mrs mariya gabriel, and all the members of the mission, who have done an excellent job, who are doing an excellent job. you know that the mission and some of its members have been the target of personal attacks. the gabonese authorities are responsible for the security of the members of the election observation mission, and such personal and regular attacks cannot be tolerated. we repeat this message to the gabonese authorities in libreville as well as in brussels every day, even now. the impartiality of the mission has been called into question. let me be very clear on this point as well. we do not take sides in the political life of the gabonese republic, but we work for democracy, transparency and the search for a peaceful solution to the crisis. the international election observation mission respected the methodology and memoranda of understanding signed with the gabonese authorities. the gabonese authorities themselves invited the mission to observe the entire electoral process, and that is exactly what the mission intends to do. it will work alongside gabonese institutions until the final results are announced, after the appeal phase. so i'm going to focus on three steps that i think are crucial to getting out of the current crisis. first, it is essential that the electoral process be completed in full transparency. we continue to advocate the publication of the results polling station by polling station to ensure the quality of the results. this recommendation was also made by the african regional organisation, the economic community of central african states, and the african union. only legal means, not acts of violence, can bring this litigation to an end. we are ready to support the appeal procedure to the constitutional court and we hope that the court will act in full transparency and independence, in accordance with its mandate. in this respect, we ask the constitutional court to grant the european mission full access to these procedures. these are part of the electoral process that gabonese have committed to making transparent and accessible to our observers. secondly, all parties must refrain from violence and guarantee the protection of the population. both the government and the opposition have a responsibility in this regard. the attacks on parliament or the official media have nothing to do with gabon's legitimate aspiration to strengthen its democracy. the role of the security forces is particularly critical. we expect the military, the police and the intelligence services to act in full compliance with the rule of law and with full respect for human rights. the public communication system, including social media, needs to be restored and maintained as a matter of urgency, and the issue of persons in detention needs to be addressed promptly and fairly. thirdly, gabon's international partners, starting with the other african countries, can play an important role in helping to ease the tension, as we have recently indicated in a joint statement with commissioner mimica. we are working closely with the united nations, the united states and france. we actively support the high-level heads of state mission, which is currently being implemented by the african union and the united nations. the availability of the president of chad, idriss déby, the current chairman of the african union, is an encouraging sign of african determination to facilitate a solution to the crisis. i am also encouraged by the presence of the african union in libreville in the person of commissioner smail chergui. i can only hope that the mission will have the opportunity to get there as soon as possible. i would like to pay particular tribute to the efforts of the special representative of the secretary-general of the united nations. he is currently leading the mediation efforts at the local level and should have our continued support. the citizens and institutions of gabon have a primary responsibility to put an end to the violence and to achieve a peaceful solution to the post-election crisis. however, the international community must be on their side to facilitate and support the process. i am convinced that the african union should be the leader. regional integration can be a powerful instrument for peace and security in africa. at the same time, the european union, all of us, are ready to support gabon with all our means.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am happy to share the appreciation of the work of the monitoring mission, although i am the first one speaking here today that was not a part of it. but i think that we have managed to monitor the work of the mission and i think that i can only praise the work. the bongo family has been in power from 1967. this is not something specific to gabon, it is something that we have seen throughout africa in recent decades. the very fact that we have these illegitimate leaders, whether it is gabon or any other country, logically in a country where there is a certain civil society this creates civil unrest. that is where the roots lie. you have outlined the points madam president, i was approaching the more or less the same ones, but from a different angle. the first point that i would like to highlight is that if the mission came to the conclusion that there were obvious abnormalities then we have to insist that the electoral commission publishes the results. the second issue is that this has to be recalculated, and i do appreciate the support that you are also giving to the efforts vis-à-vis the court, and i very much hope that the findings will be objective, transparent and independent. the third point – and the key point – i would like to underline is, and maybe i am just an observer getting it wrong, but it seems to me while the african union does play a role, we see that the mediators’ mission has been postponed, and honestly i would have expected the african union to be much more vocal and much more engaged. bearing in mind and coming back to what i said at the very beginning, this is not just a problem for gabon but something that we see more or less every year or every couple of years copy. there is a significant role to play for the african union and it is also a task for us to ‘motivate’ the african union. i would also like to wish members good luck in all their efforts and to thank them for their points and for addressing the issue.
for the vp/hr. madam president! i'll try my best. i would also like to thank all of you for this constructive exchange of views, also on behalf of the high representative, and in particular the rapporteur, mr castaldo, for this very comprehensive report. as i said, we are paying special attention to tunisia. in a few days we will be presenting a comprehensive communication for tunisia. it is also envisaged that we will almost double the budget, the financial expenditure, for tunisia to the order of about 300 million euros per year. but - as some speakers have also mentioned - the point is that this money is also used in a targeted way for economic development. economic development also includes support for vocational training, for example. there are also some interesting programmes from some european member states. we need the interaction between the training side and the economic side. but i would also like to invite those ladies and gentlemen who are travelling to tunisia from parliament in the next few days to urge their interlocutors to make sure that the necessary reforms are also carried out. because if you want to attract companies, you have to create the appropriate legal framework. there is certainly still, as it is so well said, room for improvement, and here too the tunisian side needs to play its part. we are all glad that the domestic political turmoil has been resolved and that there is a stable government. and it is also pleasing that at the beginning of december, at the invitation of your president, tunisian president essebsi will come to brussels and give a speech. this is a first and shows that relations between the european union and tunisia are deepening. tunisia is definitely one of our priority countries. and one last note. it is also important - tunisia is also very important to us - to promote regional development in the region, in the maghreb. it is the only country in the region which is on good terms with virtually all its neighbours, and this should and must be used to promote economic development and thus stability. once again, thank you for your continued interest in the development of tunisia.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr balas, whose recommendations are in line with the ambition of this commission. we vowed to put people at the heart of our policymaking and we have already taken action to defend our social values and strengthen fairness in our common market. for me this is very clear: there is no place for unfair working conditions and social dumping in the european union. while it is true that there is no legally recognised and universally shared definition of social dumping, i agree with you that it is crucial to ensure a level playing field and fair competition across the european union. i welcome, mr balas, your call to member states to increase efficiency and secure appropriate staffing levels and resources for their control bodies. i take note of your call to the commission and the member states to ensure more effective implementation of the existing legislation. i am glad that you welcome the newly established european platform on undeclared work. this will contribute to turning undeclared work into declared work and ensure social protection for millions of europeans who are losing out through various kinds of risky job arrangements. this platform will soon formally adopt its working programme and then the first activities to exchange information and best practices, engage in joint cross—border action and develop knowledge and capacity can start. in march this year we presented the proposal for the targeted revision of the 1996 posting of workers directive, with the aim of ensuring fair wage conditions for posted workers and a level playing field between posting and local companies. as you know, 14 national parliaments from 11 member states raised concerns in relation to compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, triggering the so—called yellow card procedure. we analysed the concerns voiced by the national parliaments and concluded that no subsidiarity issue subsists with this proposal. therefore, we decided to maintain the proposal unchanged. i am now looking forward to discussing my proposal and possible amendments with you and to working with this parliament and with the council in order to come to an agreement as soon as possible. i also welcome the emphasis in the report on upward social convergence. this is one of the main objectives of the european pillar of social rights, which is now the subject of a broad consultation. it should be seen as a reference framework expressing essential principles, common to participating member states, for the conduct of employment and social policy and it should serve to screen the performance of participating member states and to drive the process of reforms at national level in the light of 21st century realities. its underlying vision is one of fairness on the european labour market and social protection systems. last but not least, we take note of the report’s position on illicit employment practices in the transport sector, particularly bogus self-employment and its significant consequences for the social protection of workers. bogus self—employment in all sectors leads to unclear legal situations, barriers to access to social protection, risks such as those of precariousness and two—tier segmented labour markets, and potentially also a risk in terms of safety. combating unfair working and business conditions in road transport is at the core of the so-called road initiatives which the commission is preparing for 2017 and the same concerns are reflected in the aviation strategy for europe, adopted by the commission in december 2015, which emphasises the need to the reinforce the social agenda and create high-quality jobs in aviation.
i would like to thank mr balas in particular for his very dignified conduct of the proceedings. it was not an easy task, and we have not always been in agreement, but i would very much like this report to be the beginning of a new communication on this subject. because i think if we want to solve the real problems of the labour market, then we have to stop juggling political and ideological terms like social dumping and populist slogans, which unfortunately are already being heard here today. i am very dissatisfied with the overall wording of the report, which tries to hide behind this term the defence of the protectionist efforts of some national labour markets and calls all the inequalities and differences in the european union and even the posting of workers a manifestation of social dumping. this alibistic label hides the real nature of the problems facing the eu's working environment. my position is certainly not to defend unfair competition or unfair business conditions. quite the opposite. illegal activities must be systematically combated. that is why i propose that we provide, for example, sufficient resources to strengthen the work of labour inspectorates, which must detect workers in the field without proper contracts and basic social standards. but let us also look at the real situation in the labour market through the eyes of the owners of the companies that are the real job creators. what do they really need? are there more and more regulations that will tie their hands even more? or a simple and effective solution that can be easily applied in practice? i think deep down, you all know the answer. we must move towards better information exchange between member states, the adaptation of the rules of social systems, the adaptation of tax rules and other incentive instruments. we should communicate more openly and objectively, look at the arguments objectively. we should ensure that there is no fragmentation of individual labour markets. this is the only conceivable way of moving from the very heterogeneous conditions of europe's various labour markets to a truly pan-european labour market that we can all be happy with at some point in the future. (the rapporteur has agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i have to say it was very funny because the translation, even though there was a czech channel, was in spanish. perhaps it's a coincidence of the colleagues here on the left, but my answer is definitely no, because i understood the spanish question as well. no, i'm sure you didn't.
madam president, the state of the union report presented today shows above all a mere hint of self-criticism, but a complete lack of adequate measures to deal with the crisis. more precisely, a crisis of several affecting the european union at once. i base this claim on the contradictory views and ineffective handling of the migration crisis, the fact that most of the citizens of the united kingdom do not see a good future for themselves in the common union, and the growing disparity between the north and the south of the union. but none of these crises need be fatal. but it requires a willingness and a capacity to understand the nature of the errors that these crises have caused. and it also requires honesty to admit that these mistakes were made by specific individuals. it must be clear who specifically reacted late and who made a mistake. in the circumstances, the president of the commission should respectfully consider whether he is capable of bringing the european union out of the crisis or whether he should resign.
in writing. juncker's speech did not bring any revolutionary ideas. it was conducted in a relatively conciliatory spirit and was much less mentoring than in the past towards the sensitive topic of the refugee crisis. the other points were quite predictable and moved within the existing topics discussed. the question is what is actually feasible in the foreseeable future. i would put into this category the creation of a european army, the creation of a european foreign minister or the substantial increase in the european budget. the question is also what will be part of the eu's notified social pillar and what will be the real results of the fight against tax evasion.
in writing. i got held up. the agreement is intended to ensure that after accession to the eu, croatians can live and work in switzerland (and vice versa) (if they have a work contract). in my opinion, such an agreement should be a swiss-croatian matter and other countries and the eu should have no say in it. if switzerland and croatia ratify the agreement, i have no objection to its validity, which is why i abstained. but the agreement may be in conflict with the swiss constitution, which, based on a recent referendum, establishes switzerland's sovereignty over immigration. i would therefore leave it to switzerland to decide whether and how it envisages an agreement with croatia, and i do not want to decide for switzerland and croatia.
in writing. ‒ the i am pleased that parliament has accepted the rapporteur's recommendation for the conclusion of the protocol, which will undoubtedly bring numerous benefits to both croatia and switzerland from a political, economic and cultural point of view. switzerland benefits from the internal market as much as the eu member states, and of course free movement is an integral part of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol to the agreement between the european community and its member states and the swiss confederation, regarding the free movement of persons following croatia’s accession to the european union in 2013. according to this protocol, switzerland will be able to limit the access of croatian citizens to its labour market in terms of quotas, priority to local workers, and control of working conditions and wages for period of seven years, extendable to three more years, a limit that croatia is also entitled to apply to swiss nationals in croatia. given the importance of the eu internal market for switzerland, and the partnership with switzerland for the eu, i am certain that this protocol will bring political, economic and cultural benefits to both croatia and switzerland.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on a proposal that aims to revise the 2003 council decision to comply with the changes that were introduced by the lisbon treaty. it was a necessary and logical step to align the institutional framework to fit the current context.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the council's decision to establish a new tripartite body, with trade unions and industrial associations. i see it as corporatism, an attempt to replace democracy with union government. i consider it a waste of taxpayers' money. it's just another piece of crap.
in writing. ‒ the following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the commission presented its proposal for an updated plan for the organisation of the tripartite social summit (tss) on 31 october 2013. however, the council decided on this proposal independently, without regard to the opinion adopted by the committee on employment and social affairs of the european parliament. i strongly support the parliament's position that the report on the tripartite social summit for growth and employment should be amended in the area of the chairman of the empl, who should be invited to the tss at regular intervals. the council should therefore take this proposal into account, since its adoption is conditional on the european parliament's agreement to the commission's legislative proposal as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the tripartite social summit (tss) for growth and employment, which is a forum for dialogue between the eu institutions at president level and the european social partners at top management level. the report seeks to revise the tss so it complies with the institutional changes introduced by the lisbon treaty, particularly by replacing the lisbon strategy with the europe 2020 strategy. this revision is an opportunity to push for a coherent process of consultation of the social partners, whose contribution in terms of expertise is very valuable, to render the summit more representative of the european institutions but also of european cross-industry organisations, namely smes, but also to ensure that the agenda for the summit is determined jointly and on equal partnership by all partners.
in writing. ‒ i support this recommendation on the trilateral meeting for growth and jobs. i think it is right that a group of representatives of the commission, the european council and the social partners' delegations should be able to discuss together the problems of european social policy. however, i think it is effective and desirable that the chairman of the european parliament's committee on employment and social affairs should also be involved in the deliberations. this is also the subject of the recommendation which seeks to bring it into line with the institutional changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on the directive laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. the text allows the european commission to regularly review the technical requirements for inland vessels, which will provide the necessary legal certainty to the sector to ensure that we can benefit from innovations and maintain the highest level of safety. such assessment by the commission will be completed in light of the most recent technical innovations, it will prevent any distortion of competition and will set up a harmonised level of safety standards over the whole of the eu’s inland waterways.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to open the eu market to sadc countries, which include south africa, namibia, botswana, lesotho, swaziland and mozambique. this agreement will bring about sustainable development and regional integration in this region whilst allowing the eu to obtain wider access to the southern african customs union. i believe this arrangement is a stepping stone to a lasting and mutually beneficial economic partnership.
in writing. on 14 september 2016, at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, we voted on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the sadc epa states, of the other part (botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, south africa, swaziland). personally, i am not a big fan of these economic partnership agreements, which date back to the cotonou agreement of 2000. the current economic partnership agreement contains various very problematic provisions which are certainly not conducive to the development of african countries, especially in the agricultural sector. the terms of the agreement will lead to a loss of tax collection in these countries. moreover, the process of finalising the agreement was very rushed and many ldcs were forced to sign and ratify it as quickly as possible. for these reasons, i voted against this motion.
in writing. - i voted yes. i support the liberalisation of trade with the southern african states south africa, botswana, namibia, swaziland and others. i also support the removal of eu export subsidies to these countries.
in writing. i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the eu-sadc epa economic partnership agreement, signed on 10 june in botswana. this agreement is a further step in the deepening of relations between the european union and the southern african states. while i welcome the benefits of tariff-free and quota-free access for the sadc epa states, i must disagree with some aspects of these agreements. as a member of the s&d group, i stress the importance of civil society involvement in monitoring and scrutiny of agreements to ensure that human rights and labour standards are not violated. but here, this mechanism is not sufficiently integrated, and that should change. despite some shortcomings, i support this agreement as it not only provides a basis for deepening the partnership between the two countries, but also leads to better regional integration and helps the region to integrate into the global market. i also consider it positive that the epa is in line with wto rules, as opposed to previous agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the economic partnership agreements (epas), which are trade partnerships between the southern african development community (sadc) and the eu aimed at contributing to the integration of sadc group into the world economy and to its sustainable development. through this agreement, these states will continue to enjoy free, or in the case of south africa, preferential access to the eu market, within a wto-compatible legal framework. given that the eu is the largest trading partner of the region, i believe that these partnerships offer new opportunities for the economic development of african partner countries, but also present a promising opportunity for european businesses alike to grow. however, these epas will only have a long-term impact if they are part of the sadc states’ larger strategy to improve their trade and development-friendly policies, and pursue structural reforms.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is important to take account of the risky nature of the working environment in fisheries compared to other sectors. i particularly welcome the fact that this agreement between the social partners sets only minimum requirements for member states, which can take measures according to what is more appropriate for fishermen in a given area.
in writing. - i voted against it. the czech republic has no sea, but our citizens can work on fishing boats. i do not agree that the rules on working conditions at sea should be determined by an eu directive. i would leave it to the individual flag states to determine the conditions of workers on fishing vessels.
in writing. ‒ as a social democrat, i believe that every working person has the right to decent working and living conditions. it is also necessary to ensure protection for workers in the fishing industry, in particular in view of the specific nature of work on board fishing vessels, the high rate of accidents and the risk of disease. a major problem is also the blurred distinction between working time, rest and leisure and the impact of such conditions on human health. it is therefore necessary to adopt a council directive as soon as possible. the agreement, which also applies to self-employed fishermen, allows member states to take measures to improve the conditions of workers in these areas. i believe that provisions on wages, social protection and social security should also be drawn up to ensure that workers and their families have an adequate and dignified income, even in the event of illness or injury.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution on the agreement on the implementation of the ilo work in fishing convention, which ensures decent working and living conditions on board, but which has so far only been signed by france and estonia. workers in the fisheries sector face particularly difficult and dangerous working conditions and therefore require special protection. moreover, i believe that ratifying this convention will encourage partner countries worldwide to implement it as well, thus creating a fairer and level playing field for the global fishing sector, and namely combat exploitation of workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is important that the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights are respected in poland and in the union in general. i believe that this decision will enable us to have a productive discussion with the polish government and to find a common solution.
in writing. on 14 september 2016, we voted on a motion for a resolution on recent developments in poland and their impact on fundamental rights as laid down in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. as i have already stated, the vote on the previous resolution relates to the current constitutional crisis in poland. personally, i am generally strongly against any interference by the european union in the internal political processes taking place not only in any member state but also outside the eu. however, here the escapades of the newly formed polish government reached such a critical point that i had to agree with the european institutions' approach this time. the developments since the summer do not indicate that the polish government is seeking any peaceful solution to the situation. on the contrary, it shows that it is not going to give up its constant trampling on its own constitutional and democratic principles. the current paralysis of the constitutional tribunal clearly threatens democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law in the country. constitutional democracy, the independence of courts and judges, fundamental rights, including freedom of the media, and the right of women to freely decide on their own bodies are universal principles that must always be recognised and supported by all eu member states. i therefore supported the call on the polish government to resolve this constitutional crisis within three months and to find a compromise in line with the european commission's recommendations.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the claim that the changes to the polish constitutional tribunal 'threaten democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law in poland'. i disagree with the urgent call on the commission to assess the compatibility of recent polish laws with the 'values of the union', namely the public media act, the public service act, the anti-terrorism act and others. it is a call for protectorate supervision which violates the principle of the sovereignty of the polish parliament.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed a motion for a resolution which draws attention to recent developments in poland. i am thinking, for example, of the situation surrounding the filling of judges' seats at the constitutional court. the resolution calls on the commission to act objectively and impartially, thus fulfilling its role as guardian of the treaties, as defined in the eu treaties. in protecting the fundamental values on which the eu is founded, we must be objective and measure everyone with the same yardstick. the motion for a resolution presented seems to me to be balanced, poland points out some problematic points, but at the same time it urges the commission to take the right course. that's why i voted for the motion.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the latest developments in poland and their impact on fundamental rights. i regret that we have to return to the situation in poland, which i consider to be a developed democratic country. but the situation did not improve. the constitutional tribunal is a constitutional court, and its members are appointed by the president of the republic, by the president of the republic, by the president of the republic, and by the president of the republic. the constitutional tribunal has also been consulted on the constitutionality of the law and the constitutionality of the law on the basis of the judgments of the constitutional tribunal. the government's reluctance to publish the constitutional tribunal's decision has no place in the rule of law either. the constitutional court should not be the subject of political games. i was hoping that public pressure would lead the polish government to self-reflection. it's the opposite. in the meantime, other controversial legislation bordering on constitutionality has been adopted, such as the amendment to the police act or the anti-terrorism legislation, which is now under review before the protected constitutional court. i myself have experienced a totalitarian period of one political party rule and the trampling on of the principles of the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. so i hope that the one-colour law and justice government will soon exchange the feeling of power intoxication for respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. at least the citizens of poland deserve it.
in writing. i supported the ep resolution on recent developments in poland and their impact on fundamental rights as laid down in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the resolution adopted by the european parliament represents, in my view, a factual and rational assessment of the developments in poland so far. on the basis of the conclusions reached by the venice commission of the council of europe and other bodies, the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, has decided to open an informal dialogue with the polish government which, i hope, will lead to a concrete solution that will remove objective threats to the rule of law in poland, such as the inability of the constitutional tribunal to function properly. the eu operates on the basis of a presumption of mutual trust that the member states are acting in accordance with democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights enshrined, for example, in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. it is right that the european commission is vigilant about respecting the values to which eu countries, including poland, have committed themselves through their membership. poland must not lose its hard-won democracy and freedom.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the recent developments in poland and their impact on fundamental rights as laid down in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which calls on the polish government to solve its constitutional crisis within the three-month deadline set by the european commission in late july. while i fully respect poland’s sovereignty and its democratically elected government, the decision of its government to refuse to seat five judges appointed to the constitutional tribunal by the previous government is highly worrying and seriously threatens the rule of law. it is essential that the polish government finds a compromise regarding this matter, and demonstrates its firm commitment to the rule of law and democracy.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution as i consider it to be a balanced and constructive description of the situation in poland. from my point of view, this whole situation is not about poland as such, but it is a debate with poland, or the polish government. poland itself initiated this debate through its dispute with the venice commission and today has to face the consequences. i am convinced that the european union must defend not only european law but also the very foundations of poland's constitution in the current situation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because tunisia represents a priority country in our neighbourhood policy and is a crucial partner in our fight against terrorism. as tunisia is currently facing difficult socio-economic and security challenges, i found it necessary to continue deepening our bilateral relations and supporting them in their process of democratisation. the financial assistance and the proposed deep and comprehensive free trade agreement will positively influence development in tunisia in the short and long run, which in turn will be beneficial for europe as well.
in writing. on 14 september 2016, we voted in the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on a report on eu relations with tunisia in the current regional context. it is important to recognise that the maghreb countries are absolutely crucial for the eu to address some of their current problems, such as the so-called migration crisis, and therefore their current developments need to be closely monitored and very broad cooperation developed with them. but in recent years, substantially all the countries of the maghreb have been plagued by serious problems. i am therefore very pleased that the rapporteur has managed to include in the report on tunisia some controversial issues and measures, such as the debt problem of public finances, the death penalty and the new anti-terrorism law, the fight against regional disparities, the social system, etc. so even though we failed to pass all our amendments, for example on the restructuring of the national debt or the trade agreement with the eu, i decided to support the report in the vote.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the call for member states to provide 'significant financial resources' to help tunisia. i'm for trade, not aid, which is better to have free trade with tunisia than to send it charity. i also disagree with the call to promote 'gender-balanced policies', tunisia must achieve gender equality on its own and gender-balanced policies in the form of quotas are wrong policies that do not help tunisia and have nothing to do with equality before the law.
in writing. tunisia became the birthplace of the arab spring in 2011, heralding its transition to a democratic state. the country has faced many challenges and threats in consolidating and ensuring the implementation and implementation of the necessary reforms. yet it is now a successful example for other arab countries, and its consolidation is essential for the stability of the entire region. in this context, it is necessary to support the national people's assembly (npa) which should continue to strive to increase its capacity and thus improve its ability to fulfil its legislative role. despite the continuing social and economic difficulties, i see tunisia as a country with great potential for closer relations with the eu. it is therefore important to continue to support this country to complete its transition to democracy. member states should therefore fully participate and provide technical and financial resources to tunisia. tunisia should use this support in particular to build the capacity of civil society organisations, reform the judiciary and the rule of law, continue the process of decentralisation and strengthen the regions.
in writing. i have today endorsed the report on eu relations with tunisia in the current regional context, as tunisia is one of the eu's important partners in the mediterranean region and its recent developments give some hope that it will be able to stabilise and develop further. the eu is also interested in these developments and i therefore welcome the fact that the ep is now reaffirming its support for tunisia and is calling on the member states and eu institutions and agencies to provide greater support to tunisia, whether in the area of supporting civil society, greater cooperation in the area of trade or, last but not least, cooperation and support for tunisia in its fight against terrorism and the consequences of the unstable situation, particularly in libya. a stable and prosperous tunisia is in the eu's interest.
in writing. ‒ we cannot stress enough that the consolidation of the peaceful democratic transition process in tunisia is paramount for the stability of the entire region. unfortunately, the ongoing terrorist threat and economic crisis in tunisia have stalled the implementation of essential political, economic and social reforms. this is why i voted in favour of the report on eu relations with tunisia in the current regional context, as i agree that we must step up our financial support and technical assistance to help ensure that tunisia achieves tangible results in terms of growth and employment, the fight against corruption, a thorough security infrastructure and the reform of certain of its controversial societal laws.
in writing. ‒ social dumping resulting in unfair competition, illegal practices and disregard of social and labour standards is, of course, negative and we should do our best to fight against it. we need to make sure that the current rules are fully enforced and that there is no room for social dumping in the eu. however, there is a certain misuse of the term in the present report which relates to the fact that there are differences in labour costs among the eu member states. the report, in this respect, calls for protectionist measures to be adopted and that is why i voted against it. free movement of labour, together with competitive advantages of respective member states need to be preserved, as they are at the very basis of the european union.
in writing. on 14 september 2016, we voted on the report on social dumping in the eu at the plenary session in strasbourg. the report is based on the consideration that there is a significant asymmetry between the reality of an increasingly developed eu internal market and the inadequate protection of social rights in the eu. unfair economic and social competition not only hinders the maintenance of a high level of social protection in the eu, but above all encourages economic operators to reduce their labour costs, thus progressively undermining social standards and reducing the financial resources needed to ensure a high level of social protection. this asymmetry between economic freedoms and social rights also has a significant political impact, as it rightly fosters the feeling that the eu weakens individuals and entire communities instead of protecting them. so, in my view, the only solution to this generally unhappy area, which has been largely neglected for years and totally ignored by the european elites, is at least partial harmonisation of social rights across the eu with the aim of creating a more social europe. it is the only way to prevent the social tourism that is so much discussed today and the flight of people from eastern europe to western europe. although the original report was weakened considerably during the negotiations, it contains a fairly solid list of concrete steps to prevent social dumping and strengthen social protection in the eu in the future, which is why i supported it.
in writing. i voted against it. i see the term 'social dumping' as a cover phrase in the old member states used purely to suppress cheaper competition from the eu's eastern countries. i do not agree with the call to set a mandatory minimum wage in the czech republic at 60% of the average wage, i.e. 16 thousand crowns. with a minimum wage this high, it would not be worthwhile in some regions to employ people without qualifications or experience. labour law should remain in the member states. i object to the call for stricter checks on long-distance drivers. i also disagree with the proposal to set up a new agency, the european road transport agency. i disagree with the challenge to ban the liberalization of so-called cabotage. i am of the opinion that a truck with free space should have the right to carry other goods. it would relieve the congestion on the roads and save oil.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed a report on social dumping in the eu. the report points out that one of the main principles of eu policy is social cohesion, which means the continuous and ongoing convergence of wages and protection and social security for all workers. unfortunately, it is clear that there are still significant differences in working conditions and wages across the union, which is one of the reasons why workers leave for another country. in the discussion we also highlighted the persistence of the gender pay gap and the minimal progress made in this area despite all efforts. social dumping can only make this situation worse. it should also be borne in mind that the gender pay gap also leads to pension gaps, which is one of the main reasons why older women are more at risk of poverty than men. the report highlights all these negative social phenomena, and i voted for it.
in writing. i did not support the report on social dumping in the eu because i do not agree with its basic premise. it is appropriate to speak of various forms of dumping in relation to trade with third countries such as china, but not within the eu where internal market rules apply. and, moreover, in a situation where the member states have their social policies at a high level. moreover, a significant number of the phenomena mentioned in the report are violations of laws or other standards for which the term 'failure to enforce' should be used. social dumping is not legally defined (nor is it definable, as it is subjective), and juggling with this concept is therefore dangerous and easily exploited by, for example, opponents of the common market and free movement in the eu. i consider fundamental freedoms within the eu to be an inviolable value and it would be very frivolous to violate them with political concepts such as social dumping.
‒ social dumping is a phenomenon closely linked to an increasingly competitive environment. the operators seek to reduce their labour costs as much as possible and resort to unfair competition practices. that's unacceptable to me as a social democrat. the behavioural standards of the actors concerned should be set. actions that deliberately undermine workers' rights and weaken social norms cannot be tolerated. for these important reasons, i welcome the report adopted on social dumping in the european union, which brings with it important measures to combat these unfair practices. this provision, among other things, sets out a definition of social dumping, calls for the strengthening of controls and inspections and encourages the creation of a legal framework for the protection of carers and foreign domestic workers. it is also crucial that the eu and the member states strengthen their cooperation on the exchange of information on the social security of posted workers in order to better enforce existing legislation.
‒ as long as there are huge wage differences between member states in the european union, we will continue to face a competitive environment that builds on these differences. this is another reason why it is so difficult to agree on a definition of so-called social dumping across europe. this report, which describes a number of unacceptable practices towards employees in a different way, has not quite matched this. first of all, however, there is the fundamental problem of economic and social convergence. so we should be focusing on the root of the problem rather than pointing out and trying to solve one of its symptoms. the reality is that, unfortunately, the economic situation of people in different parts of europe is being exploited. these practices are not only being carried out by companies with fictitious addresses, but also by some well-known employers from economically stronger countries, as demonstrated by the testimony of truck drivers that took place here in the european parliament some time ago.
in writing. i voted against the report on social dumping in the eu today because i believe it is very dangerous to debate a concept which has no definition in eu law and whose interpretation, as used by the various discussion forums so far, is very variable. moreover, if that concept can be used as a pretext for restricting the fundamental freedoms on which the common market is based, it must be rejected. the free movement of persons, services, goods and capital is clearly regulated by eu law and any challenge to it is counterproductive and leads only to the breakdown of the common market, not to its further development.
in writing. ‒ in order to create the eu internal market, it was necessary to bring together a group of countries that are socially, economically and politically diverse. while it is essential that we ensure a level playing field, fair competition and fair working conditions across this internal market by harmonising the rules when necessary, i do not believe that imposing certain conditions that are not adapted to the specific dynamics and traditions of each member state will benefit our economy as a whole, as the report advocates. this is particularly true for many of the small businesses across the eu, for whom the imposition of certain inadequate demands could truly damage their competitiveness. this is why i voted against this report, in addition to the fact the practices it describes do not reflect my understanding of social dumping.
in writing. - i've decided not to support this report. this is an owninitiative report by parliament containing a number of measures which i do not think are feasible in practice. if we really want to help the real situation in the labour market, we should look at the real needs, not create more nonsensical regulations. furthermore, i also disagree with the form of the definition of social dumping which appears in the report. the european union should, above all, promote competitiveness and the freedom to conduct business. these are the solutions that i think would help the job market.
in writing. - i voted yes. i agree with the call on the commission to propose a delay in the entry into force of the regulation on 'the processing of key information', which i consider to be confusing and harmful. forcing investors to publish 'key contract information' in addition to their own contract and advertising leaflets is itself questionable. key information can never replace the contract and its mandatory disclosure may discourage customers with confidence in the effectiveness of the regulation from reading the contract itself. i am in favor of any delay in the effective date of this harmful regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution objecting to the commission delegated regulation on key information documents for packaged retail and insurance-based investment products (priips). this is because the delegated act as adopted by the commission contained methodological flaws and therefore fails to provide clear, comparable, understandable and non-misleading information on priips to retail investors. in order for our internal market to function correctly, it is key that consumer information on investment products be comparable in order to promote a level playing field in the market, no matter what type of financial intermediary manufactures or markets them.
madam president, this is a special case but not a surprising one. i must congratulate the commission and commissioner, in particular. from what i have seen, this is serious piece of work, regardless of the fact that the final say will come from the court. i would also like to congratulate apple, which has helped us to raise awareness of these problems with people and, hopefully, support for our work. so we should keep going. state aid is a legitimate tool to deal with this issue, because it is a competition problem and not about attacking national tax systems. the second countries should keep closing the loopholes in their tax systems as, for example, ireland has done recently. we should do our job too, as we did recently in the anti—tax avoidance directive. last but not least, let me say that, if we have the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), the debate about who should attribute the profit from the sale of iphones in the european union will be irrelevant, so i hope we will go for that.
madam president, i would like to take the liberty of interpreting a message from a british citizen, neil holmes apple, with whom i fully identify. his message to apple is simple: if his store is on fire, he shouldn't call the fire department, if his store is robbed, he shouldn't call the police, he shouldn't use public roads to transport goods, because if apple doesn't participate in paying taxes like the rest of us, then he doesn't have the right to use services that are paid for by our taxes. we've even punished our own citizens for not paying taxes by imprisoning them and making dubious deals with corporations. mr juncker has forgotten to mention how this is actually done, but we must put an end to this practice, because otherwise we will not explain to anyone that we are making europe for the citizens and not for the corporations and their profits.
mr president, commissioner, i support the proposal for a single european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. it is only good that we as the european union are able to improve together our instrumentation for the return of illegal residents. without a functioning return policy, the other elements of the eu's migration policy will never function properly. moreover, there are no simple solutions, especially in the area of migration. the proposed uniform document does not in itself solve the problem of an ineffective return policy, it is only one of the steps that can contribute to improving the situation. just as we need a second party willing to conclude such an agreement in order to conclude a readmission agreement, we need a third country capable of recognising this common european document. and here we are, moving from the realm of justice and the home to the realm of foreign policy. there are no simple, isolated solutions. the return policy should be based on the principle of non-refoulement. the geneva convention must be respected. and i would like to express that conviction here as strongly as i support the motion.
mr president, commissioner, i have been travelling very often in the last two years to the refugee camps and meeting people. i spent my summer vacation in malta and in southern italy in sicily. and i've had the opportunity to speak, commissioner, to people who have declared themselves refugees, many of them economic migrants, about 80%. but let's face it, there are refugees. and you know what they told me? they only told me three countries they wanted to be transferred to. one country is called sweden, the second country is called germany, and the third country is called great britain. and commissioner, if these people don't want to go to the czech republic, they don't want to go to estonia, they don't want to go to romania, how do we get these people there? how are we going to keep these people in this country? i welcome the deal with turkey, i think it's very good, and i think we should help the refugees. we are and we must be in solidarity, but please, let's not invent stupidities like mandatory distribution and punish someone for not wanting or not being able to accept someone within the quota. i think that we need to think about the way in which it is being promoted. and i think his advocacy is not happy. commissioner, i beg you once again, try to think about what i'm saying.
commissioner, i would like to welcome the european commission's proposal for implementing legislation that could make the relocation of refugees a reality. i believe this proposal can help to speed up the relocation of those who are actually refugees and need our help. ladies and gentlemen, i have read very carefully the draft report by my colleague, mrs sca keller, and i could not believe with my own eyes that some of the amendments completely alter the original commission proposal, so fundamentally that it cannot be accepted in its present form. while the commission proposal envisaged the possibility of counting syrian refugees resettled from turkey in the relocation quota, the new european parliament proposal does not. the commissioner has already made it clear that he does not agree with this amendment. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the european parliament will pass sensible legislation and that the commission will do its job.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think that postal services are primarily a question of communication. i do not think that there is anything else that has changed as much in the last 20 years as communication. i wonder what the ratio was between the number of postcards sent last summer and the number of whatsapp messages or pictures sent through facebook. it has changed dramatically. if we look at the first directive of 1997 now it seems like history, and even if we look at the third directive of 2008 it is well overdue. i very much appreciate that our colleague, mr ferber, did not stick to the directive, but tried to look at not only what is happening today, but what will be happening tomorrow. i think that this is the way to go. we need to meet the expectations and demands of consumers, and we need essentially to keep up the pace. for me, the way to do this is to have a solid regulatory environment in which we have high-quality universal services with a certain degree of flexibility, independent – and i stress independent – national authorities that monitor the situation on the market, a fair environment between the companies that have been on the market for a long time and the newcomers, between the universal services companies and the smes, and also a solid awareness of cross-border opportunities. this is the way to go, not protectionism, which i fear is being encountered in a number of member states. for me, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the end; this is the start because we are well ahead and we are awaiting the next proposal, which the vice-president has already spoken about: parcel delivery services. i am looking forward to that and i think that we should be bound by the principles on which we have agreed in this report. thank you very much, mr ferber, for the cooperation we had on this report.
madam president, commissioners, smes are something that is close to my heart, because i came from this business environment and i still try to get feedback directly from people on the ground for my initiatives as an mep. because i think without asking the companies how we can help them, we're never going to help them. so, without further ado, i propose these simple and effective steps to support smes: first, let's link the skills of graduates and jobseekers to the real demands of the labour market. support firms in investing in training and technical or vocational education. secondly, the commission should build on and develop successful programmes for young people, such as erasmus. we need confident, educated young people. we have lost a generation of young people dependent on social benefits to the labour market, especially in the southern states of europe. and we must not make that mistake in the future. third, in the wake of this, let's support start-ups, creative industries, do our utmost to modernise and digitise businesses. the advent of digital technologies also places new demands on the basic skills of employees. furthermore, let's simplify the rules for drawing eu grants and take advantage of synergies between different funding instruments, for example between cohesion policy instruments and direct programmes such as horizon 2020 or cosme, etc. let's help create a stable and welcoming legislative environment so that further eu regulations and new obligations do not become a nightmare for businesses, but instead an opportunity for them to develop further. i would remind you that smes contribute to up to two thirds of jobs in europe and are an important driver of innovation and entrepreneurship. their success is a prerequisite for the economic growth of every country and of europe as a whole, let us be proud of them too. therefore, providing effective and meaningful support to smes should be our top priority. i thank the rapporteur, mr krasnodębski, for his excellent cooperation, and look forward to all further cooperation on this subject, and thank all of you for what you do for smes.
rapporteur. – mr president, the best news comes at the end of the day. let me recall that in the parliament we have adopted an innovative approach to the commission’s draft prospectus regulation. before i outline our approach, let me remind you of the objective of the prospectus review. it is the first commission proposal in the context of the capital markets union. currently prospectuses are burdensome documents. an equity prospectus costs on average eur 1 million to produce. therefore, there is a need for less cumbersome prospectuses, both for investor protection and to reduce the burden on issuers. our former colleague, philippe de backer, drafted an ambitious report which had the core aim of moving towards a true capital markets union through harmonising the eu regime for smes and issuers between eur 1 million and eur 20 million by offering them the opportunity to produce a lighter prospectus called the eu growth prospectus, reducing fragmentation and capping the limit of national discretion, reducing the burden and costs on issuers and ensuring investor protection. i fully supported the draft report and, when i took over the file, i was able to work constructively with the other shadows to invent an even more tailor—made concept which fine-tunes the details of the growth prospectus. i am glad that the majority of groups share the same objectives: a truly european regime which harmonises prospectus requirements, a reduction in national discretion in terms of smaller issuances and the focus on reducing burdens for smes, notably strongly supporting a lighter prospectus regime for those issuers. other issues discussed in the shadows meeting included provisions on advertising, risk factors and the prospectus summary. we reached a broad agreement in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and i would like to think the shadow rapporteurs for their support. i highly appreciate it. i look forward to hearing comments from the vice—president and colleagues.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i have taken part in later debates, but this seems to be a record for me in terms of plenary attendance. nevertheless, i would like to thank colleagues for their support and their constructive approach. i sense an appetite to take this proposal forward quickly and i hope the plenary vote will enable us to do just that and start trilogues in the coming weeks. we all seem to agree on the objectives of the proposal, so let us get this capital markets union initiative done this year in order to support companies in getting the investments and to show that we mean business in our work to build a single market for capital in europe.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank the vice-president of the commission and my colleagues for their contributions. i very much appreciate the time spent here by the vice—president and his team. it is something of a record. the capital markets union (cmu) should be able to live up to its name. the only way this can happen is through measures which apply union wide and which encourage market harmonisation and reduce barriers to cross—border investment. i believe that parliament’s position on the prospectus regulation will achieve all of these goals, and we need a strong mandate from this house for the negotiation with the council and the commission to achieve a truly european approach. some of the comments made tonight by the vice—president of the commission about parliament’s approach sound quite promising. this morning we heard from the president of the commission that he attributes great importance to the progress with cmu and we have now heard the same from the vice—president. therefore i hope that tomorrow we will vote strongly in favour of the prospectus regulation and deliver some good news –which, i am afraid, was otherwise in short supply in the state of the union address today. thank you everybody and goodnight.
commissioner, i would like to thank you first of all for your answer to our question. we agree that it is the responsibility of the member states to set a minimum income. we also agree that at the level of the european union we can and should help member states to reduce poverty, increase employment and thereby also increase individual incomes and increase income convergence across eu countries. the differences in minimum incomes across the eu are huge. from 30,000, 40,000 euros a year, up to 4,000 euros a year in some areas, like bulgaria, france, spain, but also the czech republic. i think we have to try to reduce these huge differences. i'm in favor of a minimum income that helps those who are in difficulty, but not a long-term replacement and reward for work. the income must remain linked to the work.
draftswoman of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, allow me to thank mrs weber for her work on the report. we agree that discrimination in employment is a problem that must continue to be actively addressed and we must strive for improvements in this area. i was the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights, and in it we pointed out the problem of indirect and multiple discrimination against women. we also noted the need to address the issue of women's disadvantage linked to their motherhood. we need to reward women for their work in the home and their care of children and allow them to return to work if that is their choice. i welcome the report as a whole, but i have some reservations about it. it is better to apply existing legislation consistently than to propose new directives. i also find it very problematic to try to harmonise ethical issues or to criticise member states which take the view that wearing religious symbols in the workplace is prohibited. in these matters we should respect subsidiarity and leave it to the member states to deal with these matters within their sphere of competence. promoting equal treatment in employment is therefore an ongoing task which we must continue to support.
author. – mr president, after decades of conflict the people of somalia are still suffering. it is true that somalia’s problems are more contained than ten years ago but somalis still cannot feel safe in their country. the only way to change this is through a democratically elected government, a government that has the power to guarantee the safety and the rights of its citizens and is complemented by stable and legitimate institutions that uphold the rule of law. the upcoming elections, which must be transparent and fair, are the first step towards achieving this. somalia is going through an important political transformation. the international community must under all cirumstances remain engaged in the country. to pull out now would unravel the progress that has slowly been made. we cannot risk somalia falling into the hands of terrorists.
for the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, in the case of somalia we are talking about a state which has practically disintegrated in recent decades and whose citizens therefore cannot and have not been able to claim any rights. i think that in this case, the first thing to do is to help ensure elementary security so that the foundations of society can be restored at all. the european union should therefore work with somalia's regional partners, such as the un, to ensure that somalia gradually becomes a state capable of fulfilling its basic functions and one that its own citizens not only need not fear but can count on, for example when their lives are threatened by a private army controlling their territory. we need to help build somalia as a state where respect for human rights is the agenda of that state, not just the agenda of the international community. the upcoming 2020 election is a good opportunity to do so.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to request the postponement of the vote on the draft legislative resolution under rule 61(2) of the rules of procedure.
in writing. ‒ cooperation across the union, which the new commissioner should promote, will help us to meet the challenges we face in the new geopolitical situation. i am in full agreement with the creation of a security union portfolio. security is of vital importance to all eu member states. julian king, who has been nominated for this position, should oversee the strengthening of the fight against terrorism, organised crime and cybercrime. at the hearing before the european parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, he gave a professional performance commensurate with the importance of this agenda. that's why i voted to support julian king's nomination for this position.
in writing. ‒ despite the result of the referendum, the uk is still in the eu and is thus entitled to have a commissioner. i am convinced that sir julian king is highly competent and has the qualities needed to fulfil the position of commissioner. i am also convinced of his european commitment and i wish him the best in his new duties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, on establishing the common format and the technical security specifications of a common travel document to be used for returns of persons staying illegally in the eu. i believe that this updated format will help to improve the rate of returns for irregular migrants, which is a pillar of the eu’s asylum system and of the cooperation between eu member states and third countries. it is also a measure much needed for retaining the trust of eu citizens. in my opinion, it must be a priority for the eu to return migrants who do not qualify for international protection within the eu. by harmonising the format of the travel document, member states will reduce bureaucracy, variation, costs, and waiting periods, and will hopefully increase recognition of the document by third countries.
in writing. ‒ i consider the european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals to be one of the tools needed to manage the migration crisis. improving cooperation on return and readmission with the main countries of origin and transit of illegally staying third-country nationals is essential to increase the hitherto poor return rate. the enhanced european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals is important in this regard. a more secure european travel document for the return of third-country nationals should be introduced in order to facilitate the return and readmission of illegally staying third-country nationals. its enhanced security features should facilitate its recognition by third countries. such a document should facilitate the return of persons, in particular in the framework of readmission agreements or other arrangements with third countries, as well as in the framework of cooperation with third countries in relation to the return of persons not covered by formal agreements. so i voted for the motion.
in writing. - i voted yes. the european commission has proposed a model for a harmonised passport to be issued by member states to deported migrants for the purpose of their return. this thing is not going to save europe from illegal migration. today, anyone expelled by a member state receives either a stamp of expulsion in his passport or a replacement document for repatriation if he does not have his passport. i see the new regulation more as an eu effort to accommodate turkey, which is setting conditions for taking back illegal migrants. but i want to give this proposal a chance to prove its usefulness.
in writing. i welcome the commission's proposal to harmonise the elements of the travel document for the return of illegally staying eu third-country nationals as a concrete contribution to solving the migration crisis. the eu's return policy is one of the most difficult areas of migration policy, with only about one in two people who are required by the competent authority to leave the eu being returned. the new eu travel document should improve its recognition by third countries and reduce red tape and waiting times in member states for its issuance. in order to ensure the full effect of the approved amendments, recognition of the eu travel document should become a condition for the conclusion of eu readmission and cooperation agreements.
in writing. i decided to support the report on the proposal for a regulation on a european travel document for the return of illegally staying union citizens to third countries. the available data indicate that the rate of return of irregular migrants to third countries is still very low, while at the same time third countries refuse to accept low-quality return documents issued by individual member states. in order to improve this disadvantage and to limit illegal migration, it is therefore necessary to create a single union document with high-quality technical and security features that can be better accepted by the authorities of third countries. with increased acceptance by third country authorities, such a document can not only become another effective tool to fight illegal migration, but also ensure a place in europe for those who are genuinely in need of asylum. i have only minor reservations about two amendments. i believe that the member states should not seek to obtain a guarantee of recognition of a document, but rather to recognise it directly. the return of irregular migrants should also concern not only those who do not fulfil the conditions for entry and presence in the union, but also those who do not fulfil the conditions for 'staying'.
in writing. i was very pleased to support the creation of a new single european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals to the eu in the ep plenary. the current rate of return of unsuccessful categories of asylum seekers is very low across the eu. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. while the main stumbling block is the problematic cooperation with third countries in the readmission of their nationals on a wider range of issues, the european return travel document is a good and useful tool. the regulation of the ep and the council establishes a uniform format for this document, improves its quality by introducing security features, and thus eliminates one of the causes of rejection of documents issued by member states by third countries. this should help to increase the rate of successful implementation of readmission agreements between member states and the eu with the countries of transit or origin of persons expelled from the territory of the member states, including unsuccessful asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation on a european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals, as i believe that this initiative is urgently needed to improve the rate of returns for irregular migrants, and thereby stabilise the current migrant crisis in europe. by harmonising the content and the technical specifications of the eu travel document we will not only increase its recognition by third countries, and reduce bureaucracy and associated costs for member states through better cooperation, but also deter attempts at counterfeiting and falsification. a harmonised return policy will also guarantee that these returns are carried out with the full observance of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ this is the first legislative proposal associated with the capital markets union and i am proud to have been able to steer the regulation through parliament. we have introduced the concept of a ‘growth prospectus’ in order to ensure that small businesses are not hindered from getting access to capital by over-burdensome requirements and costs associated with producing a prospectus. we need to reduce administration, harmonise the european regime and help our companies grow.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of revising the directive on the prospectus. prospectuses are legally required documents, presenting information about a company, that inform investors about investment opportunities in the company’s securities. i believe that this is an important tool to reduce the fragmentation of financial markets and to increase investor protection, and thereby enable the european economy to pick up again. in fact, this revision will make it easier and cheaper for companies to raise capital in the eu by reducing the administrative burden, in particular for smes. it will also make the prospectus a more relevant disclosure tool for potential investors by further standardising this document.
madam president, i too did not support this report for reasons which i consider to be quite serious and which i wish to explain here. i am convinced that the commission's proposal was relatively correct. it contained a good deal of compromise and i think it was a solution which, firstly, followed on from the decision taken six months ago in favour of italy and greece and, secondly, contained a certain degree of agreement between the member states. the report presented to us by mrs sca keller, however, does indeed erase these differences to some extent, and i would like to illustrate this by saying that the quota to be included in the redistribution should not include the refugees who will come under the eu-turkey agreement, i.e. the 1:1 example. if these refugees are not counted against the quota already negotiated, i think we are undermining the agreement with turkey and for that reason i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report as it re-introduces, once again, the relocation mechanism with compulsory quotas for migrants. i keep saying that it is not possible to force any member state to accept an allocated number of immigrants when they do not want to do so. that principle, among others, was also recognised in the state of the union speech given yesterday by commission president juncker. moreover, to date, only a minimal number of syrian refugees have been actually resettled within the union. i believe that, first of all, we have to protect our external border effectively in order to limit the impact of the migration crisis, and that should be the primary duty of the new european border and coast guard agency.
in writing. i could not support the european parliament's legislative resolution of 15 september 2016 on the proposal for a council decision amending council decision (eu) 2015/1601 of 22 september 2015 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, as these were again notorious quotas. i recognize the difficult situation of italy and greece, but i don't think quotas are the solution to such a complex situation.
in writing. i voted against it. this is a proposal for a council decision, the european parliament has only a consultative role, so even if the ep votes against, the council does not have to take it into account. the essence of the proposal is to amend the infamous decision taken last year on the redistribution of migrants, in which we were overruled as the czech republic. the current proposal incorporates into eu law the eu-turkey agreement of 7 march this year on migrant exchanges (for every syrian returned to turkey, the eu will marry another syrian). i voted against for two main reasons: firstly, i am totally opposed to the principles of the eu-turkey agreement. secondly, i consider the council's decision to be a circumvention of the will of the european parliament and the national parliaments. if the agreement were to take the form of an international treaty and not merely a provisional council decision, it would have to be properly debated in the european parliament and in national parliaments. amending a temporary ruling is a mockery of the rule of law, that's how we can amend the temporary indefinitely. this is an abuse of the article of the lisbon treaty which does not require the consent of the european parliament and the involvement of national parliaments for interim measures.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the ep report because it completely empties the commission's proposal and instead takes it in a completely different direction. i believe that not only in this case should the ep report have dealt with the commission proposal (including its possible criticisms) and not confuse it with a political declaration. the commission has pragmatically proposed to include persons resettled to the member states directly from turkey in the national quotas for the relocation of refugees from italy and greece, and i understand this proposal as an attempt to contribute to the solution of the migration crisis and at the same time to ensure the functioning of the eu-turkey agreement. the decision to relocate refugees within the eu provides for a certain flexibility in view of the new circumstances and it is precisely the conclusion of the eu-turkey agreement and the obligations arising from it that, in my view, justify the activation of this flexibility clause.
in writing. i did not support the report on asylum and temporary measures for italy and greece today because i believe that the original proposal by the european commission, which proposed the possibility of voluntary resettlement of migrants, the specific number of whom could then be deducted from the already approved quotas by the specific member state implementing the voluntary resettlement, was a sufficient response to the situation where hungary had renounced the possibility of relocating a certain number of migrants from its territory to the territory of other member states. the question of the further development of european resettlement mechanisms and other elements of the current migration crisis should be addressed separately.
in writing. ‒ the eu heads of state and government agreed on 7 march 2016 a series of principles as the basis for an agreement with turkey – including to resettle, for every syrian readmitted by turkey from greek islands, another syrian from turkey to the eu member states, within the framework of the existing commitments. while i support the deal with turkey, i voted against the keller report. indeed, this report opposed the commission proposal according to which, out of 120 000 places for applicants to be relocated from italy and greece to other member states, 54 000 shall now be allocated to the relocation of syrians in the eu, from turkey in accordance with the eu-turkey agreement. the commission proposal enables member states to subtract from their allocated number of relocated applicants the number of syrians present in turkey admitted to their territory through resettlement.
in writing. ‒ the council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states is an important document because the eight guidelines set out here can, when properly applied, contribute to improving the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy in the field of employment and the labour market. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has been able to recover from past dumping and that the union industry has been able to recover from past dumping and that the union industry has been able to recover from past dumping and that the union industry has been able to recover from past dumping. with the integrated guidelines confirmed, both the council and the ep can make a significant contribution to the implementation of the european employment strategy. they provide for the possibility of developing programmes for the education and training of workers and the development of infrastructure through 'growth orientation of public finances'. for heading 3, i believe that this very objective could be used to simplify the administration of smes, which will certainly be welcomed by business people across the eu. provided that the administration of the national states makes appropriate use of this initiative. in view of the above, i support the commission's proposal as put to the vote.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree that the eu should dictate the direction of its employment policy to the member states. it is absurd that countries with higher unemployment rates than the czech republic should determine the employment policy of the czech republic. i do not agree with the call for member states to 'invest in quality jobs'. i don't think governments should invest in jobs, i think it should be corporations that employ people. i also disagree with the requirement that housing allowances be part of social policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states because i consider it necessary that the commission and the council take account of the european parliament's position on employment. as the only institution directly elected by the citizens, parliament proposed to introduce a strong social dimension into the economic and employment policies of all 28 member states. if parliament is not consulted on this, it is simply deepening the democratic deficit. in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, the european union, in implementing its policies and activities, must ensure an inclusive and integrated labour market, and ensure a high level of employment and decent working conditions throughout the union. the current lack of focus on employment policies is demonstrated by unemployment rates, which in several countries are still below pre-financial and economic crisis levels. the number of europeans at risk of exclusion and poverty has also not decreased. instead, it saw an increase of 5 million. in particular, up to 120 million europeans are currently at risk of poverty and exclusion. member states therefore have to make a much greater effort. it is no longer possible to ignore this situation. the guidelines for employment policies should therefore be taken into account unconditionally in any council recommendation. they should also be developed with parliament as an equivalent institution to help ensure more, better and sustainable jobs.
in writing. i supported the legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. despite some positive employment trends, a high number of unemployed young people and people at risk of poverty and social exclusion still persists. i therefore welcome the fact that the eu is adopting guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, which make it possible to coordinate national efforts in this area. the recommendations are rightly focused on promoting young people's entrepreneurship and on ensuring quality education and training, which play a crucial role in employment and the labour market. other positive messages can also be seen in the recommendations on ensuring gender equality in the labour market, including equal pay. lastly, the very well-chosen wording concerning the establishment of the minimum income cannot be overlooked. the text recalls that each member state should determine this for itself, taking into account its situation and national procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of maintaining the 2015 guidelines for the employment policies of the member states for 2016, as i believe that it is a useful tool to increase the effectiveness of our internal market, and to fight unemployment, particularly amongst youth. the guidelines include boosting demand for labour, enhancing labour skills and supply and the functioning of labour markets, improving the quality and performance of education and training systems, as well as ensuring social justice. measures to promote entrepreneurship, access to quality education and vocational training as well as the employability capacity for smes should also be included. however, we should refrain from going beyond minimum requirements, in order to leave space for national and regional policy-makers to devise measures that are most tailored to the specificities of their own labour market.
in writing. - i voted against it. i don't agree with killing or maiming animals for trophies, but i also don't agree with using this topic to fight bitcoin. the requirement that the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species examine whether 'emerging financial products and technologies such as bitcoin' do not 'accidentally allow speculation with the extinction of species' is seen as an attempt to stifle new technologies and bitcoin. let the states prosecute the illegal trade in animals, but not the alternative currencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution setting out our key priorities for the upcoming world wildlife conference in johannesburg – a conference to discuss measures for tackling the unprecedented level of poaching and the trafficking of illegal wildlife products. i believe that all countries should step up their efforts to enforce the cites rules, combat related corruption, strengthen border control at crossing points, and toughen the sanctions against criminal traffickers of these products. this summit will also be a unique opportunity for the eu to speak with one voice on the implementation of a european wildlife action plan, and to reaffirm its wider commitment to promoting the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the proposal to monitor delivery drivers 'by means of digital monitoring devices installed in vehicles', even if they are self-employed, subcontracted, temporary or contract workers. i see this as a big brother-style attempt at state surveillance. i also disagree with the request that 'the commission and the member states collect more data on the parcel delivery market'.
‒ postal services are an important segment of the eu's internal market and i therefore consider a report on this topic to be very necessary. this need is also due to the fact that the eu postal market is undergoing dynamic development characterised by the growth of parcel delivery and online delivery. the report rightly mentions the need to strengthen cooperation between national regulatory authorities in order to achieve greater efficiency and interoperability in cross-border delivery and also pays attention to the issue of universal service. the link between the achievement of the digital single market and affordable and reliable parcel delivery services is also worth mentioning. any new legislation on the parcel delivery market must therefore be proportionate and must not interfere with the development of value-added services such as tracking the movement of parcels, pick-up and hand-over points, the choice of delivery time and appropriate return procedures.
in writing. as a report by the european commission shows, postal services have changed significantly in recent years. new technologies and electronic services are driving up online purchases, while paper deliveries are declining. despite rapid changes, it is essential that the traditional postal services be maintained and made available to all users. therefore, promoting cross-border parcel delivery and reducing price differences between national and cross-border delivery is essential to the creation of a single european market in postal services. despite the development of new delivery technologies, there is a need to protect postal workers from increasing their workload beyond their control. as the report by mr ferber emphasises, overburdening workers and reducing labour costs should not be seen as flexibility. that's why i supported his report.
in writing. i supported the report on the application of the postal services directive. the report calls for greater transparency in terms of pricing and service provision, particularly in e-commerce. the report highlights a number of cases of unfair competition in the postal services sector, recalls that unfair competition can contribute to worsening working conditions and calls on the responsible authorities to punish any wrongdoing in this respect. the report also suggests that the benefits offered by new technologies, including drones, could simplify the delivery of services, especially in sparsely populated, isolated and remote areas.
in writing. ‒ communication has changed considerably over recent years: communications are now immediate and our communication tools have become access doors to services. those changes have impacted on postal services and, whether we like it or not, we send fewer letters but receive more parcels. innovation in the sector moves swiftly and we must make sure the legislation keeps track and anticipate challenges. i voted in favour of the report on the application of the postal services directive because i share its assessment of the situation and the solutions put forward for the future of postal services regulation. we need a regulatory framework that maintains high-quality universal-service obligations while allowing a certain flexibility: strong and independent national regulatory authorities; increased price transparency and consumer awareness; and, if the competition between historic operators, universal-service providers and newcomers is fair, protectionism. this report is only a first step in the establishment of the next regulatory framework on postal and parcel delivery services, and i will continue monitoring those developments.
in writing. ‒ in the european parliament we often refer to smes as the backbone of our economy. it is therefore important that we propose concrete ways to improve their access to finance. the regulatory framework should incentivise companies to grow, and access to diversity in funding is important. financial literacy and education is necessary, especially in regions with underdeveloped capital markets, to help companies to improve their knowledge of funding options and processes. going forward, i hope that this report can help the commission to develop legislation which cuts administration for businesses while helping them to grow.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the call on the commission to introduce 'loan financing schemes that would allow banks to draw on ecb funds for the sole purpose of lending to smes'. neither the commission nor the european central bank should concern themselves with commercial loans. i also disagree with the commission's setting of a coefficient that favours banks in granting loans to small firms over large ones. the commission is not to talk to banks about risk-sharing strategies.
in writing. ‒ i supported a report that focuses on smes' access to both bank and non-bank sources of finance. in the area of bank loans, i welcome the call on the commission to consider how to regulate early repayment of loans in a more appropriate way within the eu, for example by setting a maximum cost for smes and greater transparency of the contracts that smes conclude. as regards non-bank sources of finance, the creation of a european database to collect information on the business strategies and financing needs of smes, which could be entered and updated on a voluntary basis, would be considered. the purpose of such a database would be to collect transparent, standardised and publicly available information on sme financing, which would enable an understanding of their risk profile and make informed decisions and reduce the cost of financing.
in writing. ‒ smes vary considerably across the eu in terms of size, business model, development stage, financial structure and legal form, and nationality. this is why sme financing is a highly complex issue and has become even more so with the economic crisis, as smes depend on bank lending by 80%. yet, smes constitute the backbone of the european economy, which is why i voted in favour of the resolution to facilitate the access to finance for smes and increase the diversity of sme funding in a capital markets union. it will do so not only by improving finance opportunities at every stage of their development and facilitating access to bank lending, but also by encouraging new sources of financing such as fintech. financial literacy, skills and knowledge of smes should also be promoted.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the call for member states to 'promote the creation and development of cooperative enterprises'. i don't think states should be able to influence what legal forms people use in business. we've seen the state prioritizing cooperatives in previous socialism. i disagree with the 'urgent call to develop effective and meaningful advertising campaigns to promote the fast track to innovation (fti) '. i don't think we need more campaigns for european funds paid for with taxpayers' money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on ‘how best to harness the job creation potential of small and medium sized enterprises (smes)’. as smes provide 99% of eu businesses, produced two thirds of the eu private sector employment and created 85% of european workplaces in the last decade, boosting the job creation potential of smes is the best way to tackle unemployment and encourage growth in our union. this can be achieved by combining upfront support to help kick-start projects with long-term strategies to improve the investment environment for smes. we must also address the issue of skills shortage and mismatches, regulatory uncertainty and work to reduce administrative burdens, in particular to increase their capacity to compete with large corporations.
in writing. ‒ even though i fully agree that the eu should combat social exclusion and discrimination which also means that we should keep removing barriers when it comes to gender equality in employment, i abstained from voting. the reason i did so is that i do not support initiatives included in the report which aim at harmonisation of maternity leaves or reinforcing legislation on compulsory paternity leave as i do not believe that this should be established from the eu level. the same applies for supporting measures such as social clauses in the public procurement.
in writing. - i voted against it. i opposed the adoption of the anti-discrimination directives and i do not agree with this report either. i disagree with the challenge that the government needs to campaign to raise awareness of lgbtq rights. it's up to each of us to find out what our rights are. i also disagree with the requirement that 'there should be rules to protect whistleblowers in cases of discrimination in the workplace'. in my opinion, that would give a benefit to whistleblowers in legal disputes involving alleged discrimination in the workplace.
in writing. i abstained on the report on the implementation of the employment equality directive, as it contains elements with which i agree and elements with which i disagree. i appreciate that the text was adopted by separate vote, recognising for example the freedom of conscience of each worker or the exclusion of the modification of religious symbols from the sphere of the member states. i also think that concepts like paternity leave can bring a lot of benefits to society if they're properly embraced. on the other hand, there are a number of points in the report with which i cannot agree, such as the point that social inequalities can only be tackled by policies which guarantee a better distribution of wealth and are based on increases in real wages, measures to promote the regulation of work and working time and labour protection. nor do i usually welcome calls for the commission to prepare new regulations, especially where the role of the states should be crucial in the context of subsidiarity.
in writing. when voting on the report on the implementation of the employment equality directive, i abstained, mainly because i believe that many of the issues it touches upon need not necessarily be addressed at union level and can be left to the competence of the member states. while i fully support employment equality and the evaluation of the effectiveness of the instruments that help to achieve it, i believe that this is a subject that should not be used as a pretext for the pursuit of policy objectives that often have little to do with employment equality.
in writing. ‒ the employment equality directive was created to protect against discrimination on grounds of religion or belief, age, disability and sexual orientation in the areas of employment, occupation and vocational training. while such measures are vital to ensure equal access to employment, occupation but also for societal cohesion, i believe that discrimination is addressed more effectively at national level, as its roots often lie in specific national historical, cultural and social dynamics. this is why i abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. i voted against it. the idea that an integrated planning strategy across the funds would reduce the risk of industrial production being relocated is like something out of a socialist central planning brochure. i do not agree with the requirement that member states 'collect gender data' for european globalisation adjustment fund projects. it's just more red tape.
‒ on the one hand, globalisation makes it much easier for us, citizens and businesses alike, to function in an increasingly interconnected world where nothing is too far away. but there are also shadowy aspects of this process, and we witness them every day. that is why i voted in favour of the report on the functioning of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the fund provides much-needed support in the form of assistance and preparation for finding a new job in the event of redundancies in the context of structural change and relocation of undertakings outside the union. i am pleased that in past years the fund has been able to cover up to 134 cases in 20 member states. given the ambitions of the european commission, i supported greater attention to european trade policy, disputes and their consequences. i also supported in this respect the reduction of the deadline for approving applications, which currently averages a staggering 303 days. it is absolutely essential to shorten this period, otherwise we will not be able to achieve the desired result of maintaining an acceptable standard of living for european workers in hazardous industrial production. the european union and the member states must ensure that the living conditions of their citizens do not deteriorate. on the contrary, they must promote a european social model based on the principles of social security, quality public services and social dialogue.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to support workers who had lost their jobs as a result of the adverse effects of globalisation. it was later broadened to support workers suffering from the global and financial crisis, as well as to self-employed and youth. since its creation, the fund has successfully helped put 49% of workers back to work and provided them with tailored support, which is why i voted in favour of extending the funding period from one to two years. it is important that the fund is carefully coordinated with other eu programmes, that its budget is spent efficiently, and that it focuses more on workers in smes, upon which the impact has remained limited until now.
madam president, we have asked this question to address the fight against the manipulation of sports results, because we want to stop the abuse of sport for individual and organized illegal enrichment. this threatens the sporting competitions that the best are supposed to win. sport is not just fun, but it is an activity that is beneficial to the individual as well as to society. corruption and the manipulation of results are bad for sport because they demotivate athletes, they demotivate fans, who can lose confidence and also lose the will to support sport. the manipulation of results is therefore a current and pressing problem, and with it the illegal betting practices that need to be tackled. the need to cleanse sport of these ills, which go against the principle of sports ethics and destroy the fundamental values on which sport is based, is therefore at the moment appropriate. the council of europe convention on the fight against the manipulation of sports competitions is a suitable instrument to enable us to confront these problems and to deal with them effectively. match fixing is an international problem and it is therefore appropriate that we also address it at the level of the european parliament. i welcome the work of the commission and the possibility of the european union also signing and acceding to this council of europe convention. i would stress that the majority of member states have already expressed their support and that the convention is therefore ready to enter into force shortly. however, the situation in malta's accession is worrying and has prevented the successful completion of this process so far. i therefore strongly urge that the process of accession to the convention be not delayed, that steps be taken to ensure that the convention is signed by the european union as soon as possible and can be applied. i would like to say that although the commissioner is not here, i know of his personal interest and positive approach to sport, because he is personally committed to the funding of sport for all and a number of beneficial sport activities at eu level. i have here a reminder of the event we had here in the european parliament in june. it was the golden ball exhibition of josef masopust, who was a phenomenon of czech football, a gentleman, a personality who always promoted fair play. so i would like to remind you today that we have examples of fair play games like this and they should be an example of how sports should be done for the future.
mr president, jordan and lebanon have responded to the refugee crisis in a humane and responsible manner. these two countries have taken in a total of over four million refugees, which is more than a third, i repeat, a third of their total population. lebanon is hosting more than one million syrian refugees. there are 417,000 syrian refugee children in lebanon, aged between three and fourteen. it is estimated that almost half of them have no access to any form of education. between 2012 and 2015, the european commission provided €269 million for humanitarian aid in lebanon in connection with the syrian crisis. in 2016, the european commission plans to allocate an additional €87 million for humanitarian assistance. i appreciate the efforts of the european union. education is the future, it means hope. but mothers of children who have no chance of reaching lebanon ask themselves a different question every day. will my child be alive tomorrow? will it survive another attack by russian and assad troops? ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time that a trauma hospital in aleppo has been bombed, including children's patients. jordan and lebanon deserve not only our recognition but also continued financial support under the european union regional fund and european humanitarian aid. the least we can do is make it easier for those who save lives for us. let's stop the murder of syrian children by the assad-russian alliance. let's give syrian children an education. it's the best weapon against war.
mr president, the eu action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) and its implementation have fundamentally helped to increase awareness of the devastating impact of illegal logging. the commitments and measures contained remain highly relevant today and should be further strengthened. governments have recently committed themselves to the sustainable development goals and the paris agreement. if the european union wants to remain a credible global partner and a global force in combating climate change, we have to take concrete actions, cooperate with international partners, and increase the coherence of eu policies to effectively push for ending deforestation and the connected violations of human rights. tackling deforestation and illegal logging can be successful only if indigenous peoples’ land rights are respected. the eu action plan needs strong governance reforms, coherence with other environmental policies and additional resources. we should express our firm position on some particular points of the problem, which i believe are essential to achieving the concrete picture of what the european union plans to undertake.
mr. chairman, i would like to take a minute to support all of my colleagues who have spoken here, because in my judgment, illegal logging is threatening the lungs of the world. and in this sense i would like to support, above all, the starting points set out in the action plan. on the other hand, i really feel that we are lagging behind in implementing it in the international field, because in my view this action plan should be directly linked to the european union's foreign policy. we should also be able to give effective support to those states which do not actually respect the commitments they may have contractually agreed with our union, particularly in the international arena. i was in singapore a few years ago, and i was really horrified by the way that smoke from indonesia is even coming into this state, and it's coming from burning forests, and it's palm oil. i think we should not resign ourselves to these facts and we should support our policy in this particular area of foreign policy.
mr. chairman, many people often find themselves in situations where they need legal help, whether as a suspect, an accused or a wanted person. in any member state, such a person shall be entitled to legal aid, whether provisional or ordinary. especially if he does not have sufficient funds to afford it himself. however, the european union does not yet have standards to ensure a minimum level of such legal aid across the european union. it is true that the exchange of information within the european union is improving and that the countries are increasingly trusting each other in their criminal justice systems. but national practices still vary widely, which creates a number of problems. in particular, legal uncertainty and the lack of clarity on the scope of the right to legal aid are the main obstacles faced by suspects, accused persons or requested persons. another aspect is the provision of legal aid itself, its financial cost and its quality. i therefore believe that this directive will contribute to harmonising this area and ensuring adequate legal aid in all member states. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i thank my colleague, the former minister of justice, who has been very active on this issue. i think at this point, the discussion is not that far away, and it never will be that far away. the unification of all criminal laws within the 27th, 28th is not possible and i think it will never be possible, given the historical experience of individual countries and the diversity of criminal law application.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ratification of the paris agreement on climate change. i do believe that it is a good step how to face issues related to preserving, protecting and improving the quality of the environment, as well as protecting human health and promoting measures at international level to deal with regional or worldwide environmental problems. i would like to call on all the parties of the agreement to ensure its swift implementation.
‒ the paris agreement is one of the most historic milestones in the fight against climate change. i voted in favour of the eu's ratification because meeting the targets set for combating climate pollution and taking a responsible approach to the environment are the foundations for preserving a clean planet for future generations. the eu's 2030 agenda for sustainable development targets, which include reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% compared to 1990 levels and increasing the share of renewable energy to at least 27%, are an ambitious commitment by which the eu demonstrates its commitment to maintaining its position as a global leader in the environment and to leading by example.
‒ the paris agreement is a logical follow-up to the kyoto protocol, since it is essential that at least as many parties to the agreement join the agreement as possible so that their total greenhouse gas emissions account for at least 55% of the global total. the ep, in cooperation with the ep, seeks to promote ratification of the protocol through its resolution. in addition to the eu countries, norway and iceland have expressed their intention to participate in the joint action. article 4 (16) of the paris agreement requires that the emission level allocated to the union is in line with the emission level commitments of the member states. the commission shall submit to the european parliament and to the council a report on the implementation of this regulation. the union and the member states shall be jointly responsible for preparing an agreement, in accordance with article 4 (18), on the notification and maintenance of the nationally determined emission reduction contributions they wish to achieve. the objective is to achieve at least a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. the paris agreement commits the parties to evaluate the results and to adapt the tools necessary to achieve the best possible effect every five years, starting in 2023. the long-term objective of the agreement is to keep global temperature rise well below 2°c compared to pre-industrial levels. i hope that parliament will support the objectives of the draft council decision by a large majority.
in writing. environmental protection is becoming a more and more frequent topic for one simple reason. humanity is at the point where it is theoretically possible to save the vital ecosystems that we need to survive on this planet. ratification of the cop21 agreement is a step in the right direction and i am glad that the european union is taking the lead in this regard, but as we all know very well, this is only the first step. moreover, it must be acknowledged that the agreement does not provide any binding guidance to states on how to achieve the objectives. moreover, there would certainly be conflicting arguments as to its actual legal enforceability. it's in the hands of the individual states, where the agreement will have to go through the proper constitutional ratification. but i personally think it is essential that we immediately follow up this great act with activities to fulfil it and to try to effectively address the pressing problems of our time. i believe we are capable of moving in this direction, which is why i voted yes in the cop21 decision.
in writing. ‒ the contract is vague, it contains no measurable obligations or mechanisms for their enforcement, so that even with the contract life will go on as before, one could say that the contract is toothless and useless. yet it is dragging the participating states into the mess we know from the eu: action plans, gender policies, regulations, contributions and subsidies. these policies have failed and have already caused much damage, destroying the soil with rapeseed and solar panels, raising energy and food prices, raising taxes and stunting economic growth. what should be done, then, if these contracts are ineffective in my view? when countries get rich, they naturally reduce their pollutant emissions and want more forests and parks. and that's good. we must not regulate countries to stagnation. economic growth, natural care for the environment, safe nuclear energy and the development of modern technologies are the best way to limit greenhouse gases.
in writing. i supported the endorsement of the paris agreement on climate change, which will allow the eu to become an official signatory to the agreement and, as a result, to enter into force. it is a responsible, ambitious, balanced agreement, with cost-effective commitments to reduce co2 emissions on a global scale. the implementation of the commitments will allow the world to avoid dangerous climate change, which in the czech republic, for example, is a particular risk of drought. the agreement recognises that global greenhouse gas emissions should peak as soon as possible and climate neutrality should be achieved by the second half of this century. the development of new technologies and their decreasing price create the conditions for even fairly ambitious climate protection objectives to be achieved at a cost that does not threaten, and in many cases can even strengthen, the stability and growth of economies. i believe in the success of the agreement, which has been signed by the eu and other major co2 emitters such as the us, russia and china. the basic premise is the political will of all parties to translate commitments from paper to reality.
in writing. the european parliament, in the presence of un secretary-general ban ki-moon and french environment minister ségolène royal, endorsed the paris agreement on climate change, known as cop21. first of all, i would like to emphasize that it was the members of the social democrats who were most committed to the creation of this document. but we're just at the beginning of the process. this agreement now needs to be ratified by all member states and its implementation will be particularly important thereafter. we must not just talk about it, but invest in clean technologies, renewable energy and energy efficiency, which are topics i deal with as a priority in the european parliament. this will be a major challenge for the european union as a whole, but especially for the central and eastern european member states, which the eu should be more supportive of in the transition to a low-carbon economy. in conclusion, i would like to recall that the key to the implementation of an ambitious agreement will be an agreement on new rules for the emission allowance market (ets). but its outcome is likewise far from decided.
in writing. ‒ i voted to ratify the paris climate agreement because it was a hard-won compromise, starting with the will of the states to reach an agreement. i consider this a great diplomatic achievement. i also see the presence of un secretary-general ban ki-moon at the ratification of the agreement in the european parliament as an appreciation of the role played by the eu and its member states throughout the negotiation process.
in writing. i supported the legislative resolution by which the european parliament endorses the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change. significant progress has been made in ratifying the agreement, which can therefore enter into force, with the consent of the european parliament. for the eu, the world's third largest emitter and a major global leader in the fight against climate change, this also means that it will not be a mere observer at important negotiations, but will allow it to discuss the details of the implementation of the paris agreement with other parties, in particular other emission giants such as china and the us. the paris agreement will enter into force on 4 november 2016, before the cop22 climate change conference in marrakech. the czech republic supports the ratification of the agreement on behalf of the eu as a whole. the czech government has already given its consent as part of the national ratification process. the agreement will now be submitted to parliament for approval and then to the president for signature. i trust that the other member states will also take a responsible stance on ratification.
‒ protecting the environment is a global challenge for all of humanity and our obligation to future generations at the same time. that's why i voted for the paris agreement on climate change. the eu's acceptance of the agreement will bring it into force and the signatory countries will be able to start working systematically to meet the commitments they have jointly set. the agreement is already a historic success in its early stages, as for the first time, other major co2 producers besides the eu have joined, notably china, russia and the usa. its main objective is to keep global warming below 2°c, but as close to 1.5°c as possible, and thus prevent further dangerous climate change. the second commitment is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions gradually so as to achieve climate neutrality by the second half of this century. the agreement is, in my view, a bold and balanced text. it should not only deliver environmental successes, but also serve as an opportunity for new technology development and economic growth. i appreciate that the agreement works with real economic stability not compromised by the cost of implementation. i trust that all signatory countries will respond responsibly to this global commitment.
in writing. ‒ the paris agreement has now been signed by 191 countries, and the eu ratification will officially bring the agreement into force. the agreement aims to limit global temperature increases at national level through climate pledges. the eu’s contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions will account for a 40% reduction from levels in the 1990s. i voted in favour of the eu ratification of the paris agreement to ensure the quick entry into force of the agreement. the eu has played a significant role in combatting climate change and must now work hard to implement internal policies that will bring to light the promises made. i believe that it is our duty as europeans to ensure not only a clean and safe environment for us here in europe, but equally to set an example by promoting environmental ambitions and conscientiousness to other nations who share with us this one world.
in writing. ‒ i supported providing assistance to greece via mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in relation to the earthquake which took place in november 2015, to help quick recovery of the ionian islands region, which the disaster mainly struck. the ionian islands are strongly dependent on tourism and since infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites with some of the most important tourist beaches were hit, financial assistance is crucial.
in writing. - i got held up. i am not against the release of funds to help greece in the aftermath of last year's earthquake. this is eur 1,6 million, a fraction of what the insurance companies pay. if the eu is sending a negligible amount of €1 million a year after the earthquake, something is wrong with the system. i think solidarity should be left to the individual citizens and to the member states, who can respond flexibly.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to the ionian islands, which were hit by the earthquake in 2015. the earthquake measured 6.1 on the richter scale caused injuries and deaths, damage to public buildings, private homes, cultural monuments, ports and road infrastructure. the latter is crucial for the greek economy, which is based largely on the service sector, and in particular on tourism. the amount of eur 1,65 billion to be provided from the solidarity fund should help the greek authorities in lefkada, ithaca and kefalonia to deal with the damage listed, to restore infrastructure and to help pay for the de-icing operations. although it is very sad that greece has been hit by a natural disaster relatively soon after the catastrophic floods that hit the country at the end of 2015, i am pleased that the solidarity fund exists for precisely these cases. although the instrument was designed to respond to the floods that hit the central european region in 2002, its mobilisation has already convinced us, on several occasions, that european solidarity works and is applicable to all member states without exception.
in writing. on 17 november 2015, greece was struck by a disaster when the ionian islands, in particular the islands of lefkada and kefalonia, were hit by an earthquake measuring 6.1 on the richter scale. this natural disaster caused extensive damage to some buildings, monuments and infrastructure, but unfortunately also resulted in loss of human life. the beaches of lefkada, which were key to tourism, were destroyed. the funding to be provided to greece comes from the european union solidarity fund, whose key role is to respond flexibly and effectively to unexpected events. in the light of recent events, i would also like to support the efforts of greece to establish a framework for the prevention and management of the risk of natural disasters, given that the territory of greece is one of the most seismically active in europe.
in writing. ‒ on 17 november 2015 the ionian islands region suffered a series of devastating earthquakes reaching a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale. the devastation included two deaths, many injuries and the damage and destruction of 120 homes, accounting for approximately eur 66 million. i voted for the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, a crucial financial mechanism which will provide badly needed monetary assistance to the ionian region in a bid to undo the damage and restore the lives, homes, infrastructure and the livelihoods of the people in the affected region.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree that €5 million should be sent to finland for social assistance following the closure of microsoft's mobile phone factory. i do not agree with the existence of the globalisation adjustment fund, i think it is nonsensical, the money should stay in people's pockets instead of being redistributed by the eu. special aid for some workers is unfair.
in writing. i supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in finland, as more than two thousand redundancies have taken place in that country this year, not only from microsoft but also from its supply chain and manufacturing. this mass redundancy was caused by microsoft's record falling share of the microsoft windows phone market by almost 50%. as a country with an economy based on information and communication technologies, this development, which unfortunately also has its elements to a lesser extent in other member states, is very painful for finland. i voted in particular for the allocation of eur 5.346 million to make it easier for the redundant workers to remain actively involved in the labour market. in cooperation with the finnish authorities, these include, for example, staff coaching, training, wage subsidies, start-up grants, travel, accommodation and relocation allowances. i also supported the establishment of a cooperation between microsoft and eures on the labour mobility programme, which should positively motivate workers to exercise their right to free movement. i firmly believe that the finnish economy, which has been severely affected by the changes in the structure of world trade caused by globalisation for some time, will be able to respond to these difficult challenges in the best possible way with european help.
in writing. ‒ finland, as of recently, has had a significant decline in its microsoft market share as a result of the shifting trend in the production of mobile phones. particularly, this reduction is the result of the shift from eu production in the ict sector to the asian-based manufacturing that has come to dominate the market. this trend has affected the entire finnish electronic industry, amounting to 2 300 job losses in the mobile phone sector alone. i voted for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in finland, entitling the struggling finnish economy to a financial contribution of around eur 5 million, which will be allocated to payroll and unemployment insurance, labour training, subsidies, and innovation grants in the aim of better managing sectorial adjustment.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree that sweden should receive eur 4 million in social aid as a result of the redundancies at ericsson. i do not agree with the existence of the globalisation adjustment fund, i think it is nonsensical, the money should stay in people's pockets instead of being redistributed by the eu. special aid for some workers is unfair.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for sweden and ericsson, because in just six months over 1 500 workers have been made redundant at that company. as the reduction in staff numbers was only the end result of stagnating growth and the company's strategy of concentrating most of its hardware production in asia with much cheaper labour, this case fulfils, according to the european commission, the conditions laid down for receiving support from the globalisation fund. the overall trend of declining hardware production leaves all swedish regions with relatively large groups of older citizens with similar education and experience portfolios who are forced to look for new jobs. i therefore supported the release of almost eur 4 million to provide assistance to these disadvantaged groups by 2018, for example in the form of individual planning, courses, communication with new employers or traineeships. i also supported the support activities mentioned above in line with the further development of a sustainable economy. it is of the utmost importance to achieve the highest possible involvement of local authorities, who have the deepest possible knowledge of the labour market and its problems at regional and local level. at the same time, the affected areas have to cope with the integration of a significant number of newly arrived migrants.
in writing. ‒ similar to the case of finland and nokia, sweden’s ericsson too faces similar challenges with the shifting of global software development from europe to the rapidly growing sector in asia. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund intended to compensate for sweden’s decline in its software production market share. the funds will be allocated to workers who have been made redundant, for the purpose of counselling and career guidance, employment rehabilitation, education and training as well as job search allowances. i believe that with these funds, the redundant workers in sweden concerned will be able to reintegrate successfully into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted to waive mr. grammatikakis' immunity, he asked for it. this is a 20-year-old case involving the payment of an employee pension. let the greek courts handle this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of waving the immunity of member of parliament giorgos grammatikakis, as requested by the greek authorities as well as by giorgos grammatikakis himself, for failing to comply with certain legal obligations. the charges facing grammatikakis concern a discussion held on 8 march 1996 on the possibility of concluding a new private collective insurance policy – in addition to the compulsory insurance policy – for all employees of the university of crete and allegedly unlawful payments being made in successive instalments over the period 2000-2002. because the proposed proceedings are clearly unrelated to giorgos grammatikakis’s status as a member of the european parliament, given that they relate to his former position as rector of the senate of the university of crete, he should therefore not be granted the immunity provided by his current position, but be prosecuted in his former capacity in order to end this long judicial process.
madam president, i also support this draft report and the final content of the resolution that was adopted, and the form of the report, that is to say the accompanying directive. in my view, this is an expression of the principle of subsidiarity, which means that, indeed, it is also necessary in judicial matters that this principle should be reflected and that the member states should then be able to influence the specific form of the legal acts which are to affect them also in the field of judicial cooperation. this is also reflected in this free legal aid. in the czech republic, there has been a debate for several years about what the specific content should be and who should be the provider of this free legal aid. and i would very much like to see this debate, and our national debate, taking place in our own backyard, and the european union giving us some leeway in this respect, which will then be reflected in the content of national legislation. i could support the directive because it is appropriate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive because it is crucial to ensure fair trials and access to justice for eu citizens. the procedural rights of suspected or accused persons in criminal proceedings must be guaranteed equally across the eu. this directive broadens already existing legal rights, such as the right to interpretation and translation, the right to information, the right of access to a lawyer, the presumption of innocence and special safeguards for children. the legal aid directive ensures essential rights for eu citizens who cannot afford a lawyer or court proceedings for both ‘provisional’ and ‘ordinary’ legal aid.
in writing. - i got held up. i do not agree with the existence of a european arrest warrant, which requires states to extradite people for prosecution abroad. but since the european arrest warrant exists, i support the right of accused persons to be arrested to have a lawyer and a fair trial.
in writing. i supported the agreement of the ep and the council at first reading which strengthens the rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings who have been deprived of their liberty and of persons subject to a european arrest warrant by ensuring that they have access to legal aid in the early stages of criminal proceedings, when they are most vulnerable. it leaves it to the member states to decide who qualifies for legal aid and allows member states to recover costs where the person is not entitled to legal aid. unlike the commission's original proposal, the scope of the directive was extended to cover ordinary legal aid and not only to temporary legal aid. i welcome the inclusion of a review of the assets and justification that can be used to determine whether a person is entitled to legal aid. the purpose of the examination of the financial situation is to assess whether the person is actually without the means to pay for legal aid, whereas the examination of the merits allows the assessment of whether the provision of legal aid is in the interests of justice in the light of the circumstances of the case.
in writing. ‒ within the framework of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the union should be based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions. however, practice shows that the procedures in the member states vary widely in this respect. this problem thus represents a major obstacle to mutual and effective judicial cooperation. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to harmonise the minimum levels of legal aid in all member states. at the same time, i am very pleased that the original commission proposal has been extended to all types of legal aid in criminal proceedings. i also supported the requirement that persons subject to a european arrest warrant have the right to legal aid and a lawyer both in the issuing member state and in the executing member state.
in writing. i supported the report on the draft directive on provisional legal aid. the report as amended reflects the reality of the criminal process and the practical aspects of providing free legal aid better than the original proposal. in particular, i welcome the extension of the substantive scope of the directive to ordinary legal aid, and not just to provisional legal aid, which only applies to the first stage of criminal proceedings before the final decision on legal aid is taken. the right to legal aid will now be guaranteed not only at the initial stage but at all stages of the criminal proceedings. only in this way can the right to a fair trial be fully guaranteed throughout the criminal proceedings. i also support the inclusion of a review of the financial circumstances of persons and the justification of legal aid. only in this way can it be assessed whether a person is in fact without the financial means to pay for legal aid or whether the provision of legal aid is in the interests of justice. the proposal also adds basic interpretative rules for such assessment and the possibility for member states to recover costs related to legal aid if persons do not meet the criteria for its granting or have intentionally provided false information to the competent authorities about their financial situation.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the proposal for a directive on provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of their liberty in european arrest warrant proceedings, as i consider it to be a balanced proposal which gives member states sufficient scope to lay down the conditions necessary for the provision of legal aid under this directive. access to legal aid is generally one of the prerequisites for due process and, ultimately, the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ enshrined in the european convention of human rights, the right to legal aid and representation for all persons, regardless of their socio-economic position is a fundamental human right. this service is essential to strengthening the rights of suspects and accused persons. by establishing minimum rules on the protection of procedural rights of suspects or accused persons, the proposal aims to guarantee the effectiveness of the right of access to a lawyer at an early stage in the criminal proceedings for suspects, accused and vulnerable persons. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that, although all eu member states have national legal aid schemes, this directive will mean that eu citizens have the same minimum rights wherever they are in the eu. further, i believe that this directive represents a positive step to ensuring faire trials and access to justice for all eu citizens, not just those who can afford it.
‒ i believe that every person should have the right to legal aid, whether or not they have sufficient funds to cover the costs. the european union has no uniform standards in this area, which can cause a number of problems for suspects and accused persons. the proposed directive clearly describes the process of granting legal aid, the financial burden or the quality assurance of legal aid. i support this directive as i believe it will help to ensure better access to legal aid but also to harmonise the system of criminal procedural law across the countries of the european union.
madam president, if the european union's foreign policy is to have any practical significance in the field of human rights and if further concrete steps are to be taken in our decision-making, then this amendment to the regulation is undoubtedly necessary and i am glad that i was able to support it. the reason is that goods that can be used for the purpose of execution, that is, to deprive of life, to torture, to inhuman treatment, such goods should be punished. since the adoption of the convention for the protection of human rights, the european area has been considered, within the council of europe, as an area to combat inhuman treatment of persons. of course, the death penalty is unacceptable. for that reason, i am glad to have supported this motion.
in writing. ‒ the eu has a clear and firm stand on how to deal with death penalty or torture issues; we just say no to it. this report reflects very well the eu position also in the international trade area. i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the eu has to tighten the rules concerning trade of goods related to capital punishment and torture. i also believe that the eu should lead by example and set standards on global level to be respected by other trade partners.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of measures that will contribute to the protection of human rights via controls on items and activities that are used for or could be misused for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. with foreign trade transactions becoming ever more complex, it is important to ensure the right mix of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of torture goods and effectively control items with potentially lethal and inhumane uses.
in writing. i was happy to support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it is necessary to prohibit brokers in the union from providing brokering services in relation to goods whose export and import are prohibited because such goods have no practical use other than for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the prohibition on the provision of such services serves to protect public morality and to respect the principles of human dignity which are at the heart of the european values enshrined in the treaty on european union and in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. - i got held up. i'm against restricting trade. items cannot be considered to be used for torture or capital punishment anywhere and the moral acceptability of such exports must be considered by manufacturers and individual workers. the proposed system will also be administratively burdensome for companies exporting goods that will not ultimately be used for capital punishment and torture. i don't think they make guillotines or electric chairs or anything like that in the czech republic, so i've been holding off.
in writing. i supported the revision of the existing rules to increase the capacity to effectively prevent the production, trade and use of goods intended for torture and to effectively control goods that could be used to kill or inhumanely treat persons. these include, in particular, the prevention of the use of controlled medicinal products for the purpose of capital punishment by lethal injection, the introduction of a ban on the brokering of services in the field of prohibited goods and the extension of the ban on the brokering of services and the provision of technical assistance in the field of controlled goods where the supplier or the broker knows or has reason to believe that the goods may be used for torture, and finally the introduction of a union general export authorisation for countries which have entered into clear international commitments in accordance with protocol no 13 to the european convention for the protection of human rights or the second optional protocol to the international covenant on civil and political rights.
in writing. i fully support this proposal, as its implementation should lead to a strengthened and consolidated eu role in its efforts to fully eradicate the death penalty and torture. the proposal aims to combat trade in goods intended for torture or capital punishment and calls for a complete ban on licences for trade in such goods (e.g. lethal injections, other pharmaceuticals and other goods precisely specified in specific lists). it also strengthens the provisions on ancillary services linked to the transfer of goods and the provisions on transit, technical assistance and commercialisation. i welcome the establishment of a mechanism for periodic reviews, a more systematic exchange of information and a strengthened monitoring of the implementation of the regulation. i am convinced that more effective controls and better cooperation in this area will increase the chances of eliminating trade in goods that are destined for inhuman or degrading treatment or that lead to death.
in writing. i supported the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 concerning trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. i consider the revision of the current 'anti-torture regulation' (ec) no 1236/2005 to be an important step forward which will contribute to greater protection of human rights worldwide, to the abolition of the death penalty and to the prohibition of torture. the immediate updating and effective control of goods or activities that are being or could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment is therefore more than appropriate. the inclusion of substances which are used for legitimate therapeutic purposes but which, when injected, can be used in high doses for capital punishment, in the list of controlled goods, is therefore welcome. from the point of view of czech exporters, i consider the introduction of a general export authorisation for the specified goods to selected third countries to be essential in particular. this, together with other measures, will make a significant contribution to the efficiency of controls on the designated goods, while reducing the administrative burden on exporters.
in writing. i supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 concerning trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it is one of the instruments resulting from the protection of human rights, which aims to contribute to the abolition of the death penalty worldwide and the prohibition of torture, by restricting the trade in goods used for these activities. i believe that this is the right step, which contributes to the protection of life, human rights and freedoms, and at the same time leads to the limitation of cruel inhuman acts.
in writing. ‒ in respecting fundamental human rights, the eu supports the movement for the global abolition of capital punishment in every manner it can. regrettably, however, capital punishment remains intact in many third countries with which the eu shares trade ties with. nevertheless, the respect for human rights is one of the core values of the european union and remains an essential element in the union’s relationships it fosters with third countries. although there already exists a regulatory framework which prohibits the export and import of goods which can be used to apply the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment and punishment, there remains a need to tighten the regulation through the use of export authorisation requirements on goods that could be used for the purpose of torture or other ill-treatment. i too share the desire to eradicate capital punishment around the word, as was done in the eu in 2012, and this is why i voted in favour of the legislative proposal.
in writing. - devices such as gallows, electric chairs and lethal injection have practically no other use than for the purposes of capital punishment or inhuman treatment. i therefore see no reason why the eu, which is openly opposed to the death penalty and other unusual punishments, should support the sale of such devices. i appreciate that the proposal deals with the transit of the goods in question through the eu itself, but also with the urgency procedure concerning the prohibition of a new type of goods, if this is absolutely necessary. i therefore support this proposal and believe that it will help to combat the trafficking of these devices effectively.
in writing. i supported the draft proposed strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. i would like to emphasise that such a strategic agreement excludes the exchange of personal data and that the issue of personal data protection is therefore irrelevant in this case. the information exchanged could include expertise, general situational reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training activities and the provision of advice and support in specific cases of criminal investigation. i am convinced that there is a clear operational need for cooperation between europol and china. according to europol, china is increasingly important as a country of origin, destination and transit country in the fight against organised crime such as facilitation of illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, counterfeiting of the euro, infringement of intellectual property rights, corruption in sport and activities related to cybercrime and money laundering. china is also home to several prominent organized crime groups. i therefore fully support the conclusion of this strategic cooperation agreement with china as it would help to fight organised crime and strengthen this fight and promote better international law enforcement cooperation.
in writing. - i voted against it. i am against the strengthening of europol's police powers and the conclusion of a cooperation agreement with the chinese police is strengthening europol's powers.
in writing. i support the conclusion of a strategic cooperation between europol and china in the field of strategic information sharing. china is becoming increasingly important as a transit and origin country for organised crime. this includes, for example, trafficking in human beings, infringement of intellectual property rights, drug-related crime and, last but not least, counterfeiting of the euro. china is also home to several prominent organized crime groups. in order to strengthen the fight against and improve international law enforcement cooperation, the europol-china agreement should significantly contribute to the detection and prevention of crime, increase expertise and improve investigative procedures in dealing with criminal offences on both sides. i consider the protection of the privacy of european citizens to be an essential aspect of the agreement, since the agreement excludes the exchange of personal data.
in writing. i have today supported the approval of the council decision approving the conclusion of the europol-china agreement as one of the ways of fulfilling europol's mandate to conclude cooperation agreements with third countries to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other serious crimes. this is an agreement to exchange strategic and technical information, not to exchange personal data which could then be used against individuals advocating for human rights, for example. i would also add that the conclusion of this agreement does not alter my negative opinion as regards the possibility of granting market economy status to china within the wto.
in writing. ‒ the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the people’s republic of china provides for the exchange of information which has become increasingly relevant in the fight against organised crime. there seem to be clear operational needs for europol to cooperate with china. according to europol, china is increasingly relevant as a source, destination and transit country in the fight against organised crime, such as facilitated illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crimes, euro-counterfeiting, intellectual property rights infringements, sport corruption, as well as cybercrime and money laundering related activities. furthermore, china is home to several high-impact organised criminal groups. i voted in favour of the europol-china agreement because i am certain that the only way of combatting international crime and enhancing international law enforcement is through increased cooperation and mutual assistance.
in writing. the core of the strategic agreement is the exchange of information on international crime for the purpose of preventing and combating terrorism and other serious crimes. i consider cooperation between europol and china to be a step in the right direction, as china is home to several important organised groups that can have an impact at global level. among others, china can also serve as a suitable transit country for other og. for these reasons, i support this strategic cooperation agreement, as the measures it brings will contribute to the fight against international crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and the eu creates effective and beneficial political, economic, development and trade cooperation. i agree that there is a need to put in place a new structure, which would better reflect the importance of human rights, gender equality and the rule of law. i also welcome the call for stronger involvement in political dialogue and for an acp-eu peer monitoring, so that the implementation policies with regard to the sustainable development goals in member states would be monitored.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020, as the sustainable development of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states can only be ensured by their gradual integration into the global economy. the partnership between the eu member states and the acp group of countries must build continuously on previous agreements, including the cotonou agreement, which expires in 2020. only through closer cooperation can development goals, such as eradicating poverty and promoting human rights and democratic principles, be achieved.
in writing. ‒ while i consider the creation of agreements with the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) to be very important, i have decided to abstain from voting on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020. while fully supporting the fact that the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the sdgs become the focal points of the new agreement and that a strong monitoring mechanism is established to ensure that the agreement contributes to and supports the sdgs, i was disappointed to note that the private sector can play a key role in the development process and contribute to its financing if investments are made with respect for people and traditional ownership or use and the environment, in line with the un guiding principles on business and human rights. because that points to the fundamental problem of the eu, which is that we say a, but we forget b. the belief that corporations will behave decently in countries that have poor governance and corruption problems is nice, but we know that it doesn't happen too often. it's an interesting idea to make the wolf a shepherd and hope that he doesn't abuse his dominance, but it's a faith that's completely blind and incredibly stupid.
in writing. - i voted against it. we're supposed to be doing business with african and caribbean countries, not pumping subsidies into them. i also disagree with the involvement of the european investment bank in private projects in third countries.
in writing. i supported the report on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020 and i consider it important that the ep is dealing with this issue in such depth. i believe that the eu's policy towards the acp countries should be more consistent. in this respect, the report rightly points out that, although article 97 of the cotonou agreement establishes a consultation procedure and appropriate measures to tackle serious corruption, this article has so far been applied in only one case and should therefore be significantly strengthened in the new eu-acp partnership agreement. i also believe that all economic partnership agreements should incorporate legally binding provisions on sustainability, in particular with regard to human rights, but also social and environmental standards, as the future contractual framework for relations between the eu and the acp countries.
in writing. ‒ the european union has had a partnership agreement with the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) since 2000. acp-eu cooperation has in recent years strengthened relations between the acp and eu peoples and countries, including at the interparliamentary level. however, there is a need to update the memorandum of understanding to take into account the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and its objectives. the new agreement should also include a specific monitoring mechanism to monitor the achievement of the objectives of the agenda. i believe that there is a need to strengthen political dialogue, particularly on the issue of human rights. i also support the idea of creating a specific financial instrument to finance security expenditure in the context of development aid.
in writing. ‒ the relationship between the eu on the one hand and the african, caribbean and pacific states on the other is a significant partnership. it is therefore appropriate to build on the cotonou agreement in the future and thereby support the achievement of objectives such as the eradication of poverty and hunger, access to drinking water or access to education. the new agreement should be based, for example, on cooperation in areas of common interest, mutual accountability and monitoring, stronger involvement of civil society or the fight against corruption. i agree with that and therefore i would like to support this future cooperation by my vote.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou agreement (2000) aims to reduce and eventually eradicate poverty through the promotion of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries into the world economy. the eu-acp partnership is based on a set of basic values and principles, including respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy based on the rule of law, and transparent and accountable governance. as of recently, the agreement has come to require a revision and reassessment of the long-standing partnership in order to have it better serve its purpose of regional development. i voted in favour of the revision of the acp-eu agreement because i believe the partnership must now evolve from the donor-recipient mentality, which has not encouraged the full potential of development in the acp community, to a more mutual political partnership based on sustainable shared cooperation among and between acp members, providing greater independence from the eu.
in writing. ‒ the report, in my view, addresses the future of the partnership between the eu and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states in a useful and effective way. the relationship must adapt to the political, structural and demographic changes that have taken place over the past decades. i fully agree that the new agreement should be based on a focus on sustainable development and political dialogue, which should be actively and systematically used to avoid political crises in the acp region.
commissioner moscovici, you are here, with satisfaction, praising the loan programmes for greece and saying that you believe that the greek economy will grow next year, but you are always lying to yourself. the greek economy is in its ninth consecutive year of decline, and the forecast for next year is for another one. the overall decline over the nine years is about 27%, huge unemployment, the budget still in deep deficit. the programs just don't work, so it's fair to say that the programs that have been in place have been a disaster. i'll tell you what greece needs. greece doesn't need more loans. you've moved their due dates to 2059, when, with all due respect, you'll all be dead. greece does not need more bureaucracy, more loans, but more freedom to flourish, to rise again like a phoenix from the ashes. and part of that important freedom is to be able to leave the euro. greece needs this.
madam president, first of all, let me say that i agree with the commission’s assessment that we could see stagnation in greece this year, followed by recovery next year, finally. this is also confirmed by independent research. so greece should be at the turning point, but a turning point that is too low and that has come too late. we should ask why. i think that the first reason was the very bad governance of the greek state by governments in decades, before the start of the economic crisis, creating a malfunctioning state and promoting unsustainable policies. second, there has been a lack of trust since the beginning of the programme and a lack of ownership of the programme. i think this was the main reason why the programme in greece worked much less well than in the cases of ireland and other countries. last but not least, we should mention the huge mistake made by mr tsipras when he came to power. in my opinion, his experiment delayed the recovery of the greek economy by about two years, and showed us what would happen if the calls for leaving the euro and giving up the support programme were actually accepted. i believe that greek debt will be sustainable if the economy grows in nominal terms, interest payments are lower and the budget is in order. so we shall see what sustainability of the greek economy looks like. but most importantly, i believe that there is better future for the greek people. they deserve it. it is a great country and it will be a great country in the future. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i guess we need three points. stable, sustainable and predictable macroeconomic conditions are key. the second requirement is for the reforms that are actually taking place under pressure. and, very importantly, the banking sector must be functioning: the programme was actually aimed at supporting the ability of the banks to lend. we need confidence in the greek economy. i believe that, after this, confidence will gradually come back, and that the economy will keep growing, including smes.
madam president, i would like to find a compromise between the two positions, that is to say, whether there is already a light at the end of the tunnel or whether gifts should be given to the greek citizens. i think it is very good to see what concrete steps have been taken in the area of structural policy, by waiving greece the mandatory contribution that the national authorities had to make. so for that reason, i would like to see the light at the end of the tunnel in the other national macroeconomic indicators. and i express my sympathy to the greek people, i believe the sacrifices they are forced to make are very painful. on the other hand, this effort must also be seen in the light of the requirement of creditors to pay at least part of their legitimate claims. in this sense, i think we need to lead the victims even further, but i also believe that the light at the end of the tunnel will come.
madam president, i hope that the commission will do its homework regarding the code of conduct and its application, but the bahamas leaks revelations are far wider. this confirmed that the panama papers were just the tip of a large iceberg; but there is good news as well. this parliament established a committee of inquiry and there is a strong impetus and political will to eradicate money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. i think we must explore two main avenues: the way the legislation is implemented and reinforced, and also whether the legislation is efficient, up to the task. when we see how some european depositors reacted to the introduction of the eu savings directive by shifting their wealth to tax havens, we may rightly wonder whether the legislation fully addressed the issue. the same goes for the subsequent legal framework on automatic exchange of information. moreover, automatic exchange is not sufficient if the real owner of the company can remain anonymous. the public register is a good thing and a necessary one, but again, if the eu is the only one to impose this, money will just go where it is easy to stay off the radar. it is time the eu used its power to impose restrictive measures on the non-complying jurisdictions, but also to team up more with the oecd and other allies in this crusade against shady money flows.
madam president, as has been said already, we are dealing with two separate issues. on the first one, i believe that concerning the rules for commissioners and top rank officials we need clear, strict but also balanced rules, but on top of that we need two other ingredients. the first is common sense and a sense of responsibility in those in question, and also those who are nominating them. and obviously, like in europe, we always need enforcement of the rules. that is the weak point of our system. concerning the information about tens of thousands of offshore accounts in interesting places, held by interesting people with interesting amounts of money, as i said last time, this clearly just underlines the urgency of the tasks that are already underway for some time now. we need to learn more. the question of the balance of illegal, immoral and legitimate activity is still not clear to me but what is obvious is that two key components in the fight against this phenomenon include the programme of beneficial ownership and automated exchange of information on bank accounts. the second one, developed by the oecd, is already underway and will be implemented very soon. we must understand that with this tool it is not only important that we implement it in the eu, but that we force the others to do so. we should not hesitate to use our economic and political tools to achieve it.
madam president, in my view the commissioner should act impartially and without bias. but what we are seeing, these cases, to some extent, can undermine the trust of european citizens in the representatives of the european union and, of course, in the institutions of the european union. and i would like to emphasise here that the european union is falling and standing on the confidence of its citizens in its institutions. but we must distinguish. mrs kroes' case, in my opinion, breaks the rules that have been set, we must of course hear her, but this case does not raise any doubts in my mind. as for mr. barros, i must say that, although formally legally i do not believe that he has violated the rules that have been established, nevertheless, the moral obligations that derive from the high office thus exercised, in my opinion, he has violated. a company in a tax haven and working with such a major global company right after this protection period is over, i think that certainly raises questions in terms of ethical standards. and that's what we should be responding to. we should deepen our conflict of interest regulation, we should refine our code of ethics. i would also like to draw attention to the national politicians who funnel money into various tax havens. i believe that they are undermining the trust of their own citizens. this may be a debate that doesn't belong here, but we have to point it out.
madam president, the fact that the former president of the commission has allowed himself to be hired by an american investment bank which is facing accusations that its activities have helped to cause the two biggest crises in the european union is arrogance to the skies. and the way he's dealt with the legitimate criticism, i find it even disgusting. at least until the whole matter is investigated, mr barroso should be deprived of all the benefits and pensions he receives from the european union as a former commission president, not to mention the possible criminal consequences. as is the case now, the gue/ngl is asking the council and the european commission to do the same in the case of former dutch commissioner kroes. the only thing these two cases clearly show is that 'there is something rotten in the kingdom of denmark' and that the centre of interests of both the former and the current commissioners is therefore not resolved at all. commissioner, i'm disappointed in you. what your predecessors did is immoral and i hope criminal. what you're doing is you don't care. according to your speech, no doubt.
the european commission as guardian of the treaties, as a body with a monopoly on legislative initiative and with significant executive powers, as a body exercising its function with complete independence in the general interest of the union. this is how article 17 of the treaty on european union describes the european commission and its activities. i would like to ask where is the dignity with which the treaty establishing the european union today speaks of this institution and which the fathers of european integration intended? european citizens, the taxpayers who make the union work, have already witnessed the unpleasant but undeniably lucrative career move of former commission president barroso to goldman sachs. now it has emerged that an even bigger stain on the former commission's record will be left by former dutch commissioner neelie kroes, then responsible for the digital agenda and competitiveness, now at bank of america, uber and others. now that we find out that neelie kroes is on the bahama papers list, it just seems like the surreal icing on the cake. i am not saying that we should ban former commissioners from the private sphere altogether. but we must not allow their former function to be abused. if the commission does not reform the code of conduct to minimise conflicts of interest, it will be a laughingstock for us meps and for european citizens.
in writing. josé manuel barroso led the european commission at a time of financial crisis with dramatic repercussions for the euro area and its individual countries. the measures which the commission proposed or took part in and actively supported at the time are still very controversial. it is therefore clear that barros' subsequent tenure at one of the world's largest and most influential banks is an embarrassment to say the least. brussels institutions are often criticised for being too resistant to various lobbying interests. commissioners are even more suspicious of any suspicion or association with special interest groups. i'm advocating a much clearer adjustment of the rules regarding post-employment benefits and probably a longer time frame. however, i am afraid that a perfect arrangement that would, apart from personal integrity, prevent potential conflicts of interest of former commissioners will be very difficult to find.
mr. chairman, i'd like to first take the emotion out of this and put a pragmatic spin on the whole thing. this summer, i had the opportunity to visit the refugee camps around calais with the libe committee. and though i've heard of this famous jungle many times, what i saw there really shocked and surprised me. the condition was more horrible and more disgusting than any of you could ever imagine. it's the ugliest refugee camp i've ever seen in my life. and ladies and gentlemen, i have been to camps all across the european union. in the jungle, conflicts are a daily occurrence. the mood's at freezing point. and the various nationalities are fighting for dominance. not only are police involved every day, but doctors are often called in to treat the wounded. the overall conditions for life in this jungle are absolutely appalling. ladies and gentlemen, official statistics say that no one knows how many people actually live in the jungle. the non-profits estimate it at 4, 6, 8 or 9 thousand. but these people have a dream in common. get to the uk. we need to pour some pure wine. most of these people will never get there, and they can't get there because they're economic migrants. these are the people who should be denied asylum. and the last thing i would like to say, mr president, is that françois hollande is always making excuses for the european union. but the solution is not the european union, but francois holland.
mr president, i very much appreciate mr weber's desire to give young people, regardless of their social background or education, the opportunity to discover the diversity of europe. i am sure that young people will appreciate the opportunity to travel around europe, just as long as they return to their homes to register with the employment office as unemployed or to build their careers as unpaid interns or to fall into the trap of new disadvantageous contracts that the epp continues to support. giving people a bone to chew is the cornerstone of right-wing politics, but we on the left prefer to deal with the issue of raising living standards and the disparities between social classes that right-wing governments have encouraged through austerity policies. young people certainly have a right to a future of prosperity and social peace, and you send them on a journey instead, hoping that this happiness will last a lifetime.
mr president, the european union needs a digital single market and high-quality electronic communications on 5g networks. in this sense, i generally welcome the commission's support for connectivity across the european union. and i welcome the ambition that is embedded in the package, even though our political group is not traditionally a big supporter of eu-wide objectives. the telecommunications industry needs regulatory certainty for large investments in networks. therefore, i hope that this proposal is future-proof and anticipates developments in technologies and end-user behaviour so that we do not have to change the regulatory framework again anytime soon. i welcome the clarification, and in particular the merger of existing directives, as well as clearer consumer protection rules. the management of spectrum, which is the responsibility of the member states, is the most problematic. in conclusion, on roaming: i believe that we will be able to work with the experts and berec to set up a fair use policy so that clear and uniform rules apply to operators and regulators from the outset and the end of roaming is a happy ending for everyone.
mr president, the debate on the abolition of roaming has been going on for years. consumers will not see the final abolition of roaming charges until next year. they expect to be able to use telephony, sms and the internet throughout their stay abroad, whether for work or study, without additional costs or restrictions. the de facto abolition of roaming cannot therefore lead to the imposition of flat-rate additional charges or burdensome requirements on consumers simply because the system could hypothetically be abused. i also share the concerns of consumer organisations that the measures taken do not lead to systematic checks on telephone users by service providers. other criticisms were discussed in detail by colleague marlene mizzi. consumers must not be short-changed in their dealings with operators. i therefore trust that the commission will take due account of these comments in its proposal.
in writing. when establishing any new authority, it is very important to define its competences and, above all, its relationship with the existing structures. however, this has not been the case with the european public prosecutor's office and many questions remain unanswered to this day. it is therefore necessary for the european commission to clarify not only the links between this office, eurojust and olaf, but also to assess the impact that this new office will have on the other agencies. his financial claims will certainly be reflected in eurojust's budget, just as his activities will fundamentally affect eurojust's own activities. it is therefore necessary to establish as soon as possible an effective framework for the activities and liaisons of the new european public prosecutor's office.
mr president, i have a few points of reaction. the agenda for the european council is right, but if we look at migration we will want to see what the progress really is, and next time we would like to listen to the evaluation of the progress and the timetable. i do not think we will be credible with common defence if we are not able to implement what we have decided and if we are not able to decide what the commission has proposed, and that is of course still subject to debate. second, on trade: yes to ttip, yes to ceta, and – as jean-claude juncker has said – yes to defence instruments. we need to upgrade those so yes, we need to be defensive on dumping steel, but there are solid arguments for ceta and ttip to go ahead. finally, on russia: we will have a strategic debate. we would like to see a strategic debate, but i do not want to see the yellow card that has been mentioned. too many yellow cards – mr putin does not understand yellow cards. we want to see a red card, and then, when he reflects, he may come back to the game again. but i think that we need to show that we have a clear conception, we have a clear strategy, and what is happening today in syria is totally unacceptable in the civilised world.
mr president, in the context of the council's prepared programme, i would like to comment on one item on the agenda, namely the eu's trade policy. at present, many topics seem to overshadow the seriousness of the future trade relationship with the european union in the media. i am one of those who believe that trade agreements with the united states and canada are very important for the future. that is why i am very much against the downplaying and dissemination of information which calls into question the possibility of concluding these agreements. i think that it is important, especially at this time of the presidential election campaign in the us and the overlapping migration issues in europe, to clearly declare our vital interest in the sensible conclusion of common agreements. if the top political representation of the european union and the member states does not push this process forward, i am afraid that the chances of concluding these trade agreements in the future will be much less. the commercial activities will then be taken over by asian companies, which will benefit from the existing trans-pacific agreements.
mr president, the citizens of the member states have made their priorities clear to us. they want security, they want a union that is responsive and responsive to their concerns. the european figure who spoke here in 2000 was václav havel, who shared our concerns and also had a vision for the solution of the european union. he would have been 80 years old today, and let me quote him: "another expression of social solidarity is concern for security, which is the task of the state or a supranational union. the european union is beginning to work intensively on a new concept for its security policy. such policies should be characterised by the ability to take decisions quickly and to translate joint decisions into action quickly. it seems to me that this is extremely important, it seems to me that it is high time for this to happen,' said václav havel 16 years ago, and i would like to call on the representatives of the council, the representatives of the commission, to really react quickly so that security concerns are addressed.
mr. chairman, i would like to speak for the citizens who are being crushed by russian actions in aleppo. i think the loss of civilians, the suffering, the damage that is being done there, all of that should make you wonder whether russia can really be a partner for the european union and to what extent our sanctions lists are really sufficient. in my judgment, we should not be sacrificing civilians in this city. on the contrary, we should really stand up for them. and i would also like to support the uk's participation in the summits. i believe that we should talk to this country, that we should not exclude it, that it is even against the spirit of our existing law, and that britain should participate in these summits as long as it is part of the european union. i'd be very pleased to.
in writing. ‒ i supported the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention because the convention represents the international insurance system of the immediate return of children who have been abducted, which has high importance nowadays. it is in the interest of eu citizens that peru joins the convention and enlarges the list of the countries which have already agreed to cooperate in such cases. a functioning system of cooperation ensures children’s rights on the international level.
in writing. - i voted yes. i consider the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction to be a useful instrument for international cooperation, especially in cases of mixed marriages where one of the parents takes the child to his or her country of origin. austria and romania are hereby authorised to approve the accession of peru to the convention. sadly, austria and romania need eu approval for this.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international kidnapping is of fundamental importance and has already been ratified by all the states of the european union. i am therefore very pleased that peru has also decided to take this step, thus significantly broadening the scope for cooperation in the field of child abduction, given the large number of peruvian citizens living in the european union. the hague convention aims to protect children from abduction, which occurs in particular in cases of divorce between parents of different nationalities. if one parent decides to take the child to his or her home country, and that country is not part of the international child abduction cooperation, it can easily take custody of the child. the courts in a non-cooperating state usually decide to give the child to the custody of the parent who is a national of that state. however, if the state is a party to the hague convention, the situation can be dealt with at international level and the courts and legislation of the state in which the child is domiciled will be determined to have jurisdiction. today, the european parliament called on austria and romania, the last two countries not to have ratified the agreement, to do so. i supported that motion, of course.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention (1980) on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument, ratified by all eu member states. the convention created a cooperative system between the signatory states in the goal of resolving cases of international child abduction. most often, reports of child abduction are the result of a couple separating, where the mother and father are from different states. states often are unwilling or unable to cooperate with one another during instances of child abduction as a result of national bias of differing legal systems. parents frequently exploit these legal and judicial disparities in order to secure full custody of the child in a particular state. i voted in favour of the accession of peru so that child abduction at the international level can be resolved through the competent courts of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, we have seen an increase in cases of international child abduction, as it is common for the mother and father to come from different countries. in case of disagreement, they try to win their offspring back by taking them to their country of origin, because they rely on the fact that the countries are not cooperating and therefore it will be more difficult for them to get the child back. i therefore believe that there should be a unified system of cooperation between states to find solutions to international child abduction. at present, there may still be cases where the courts of both countries give the child into the custody of the parent who is a national of that country. the hague convention, which has been ratified by all eu states, addresses these situations and also establishes a system for the immediate return of a kidnapped child to his or her home country. i therefore welcome peru's accession to the hague convention and am confident that this step will help to better protect children in the event of their abduction across national borders.
in writing. i supported kazakhstan's accession to the convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which was signed in 1980 in the hague. the convention constitutes a comprehensive system of cooperation between states parties in cases of international child abduction. with the increasing mobility of the population, the number of children from mixed marriages is also increasing. in divorce cases, the risk of abuse of insufficient cooperation between the states of one of the parents in this area is increased. therefore, i welcome kazakhstan's accession to the convention among the states that have already signed it.
in writing. - i voted yes. i consider the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction to be a useful instrument for international cooperation, especially in cases of mixed marriages where one of the parents takes the child to his or her country of origin. this decision authorises the member states to approve the accession of kazakhstan to the convention. sadly, member states need the eu's approval for this.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international kidnapping is of fundamental importance and has already been ratified by all the states of the european union. i am therefore very pleased that kazakhstan has also decided to take this step, significantly expanding the scope for cooperation in the field of child abduction. according to the experts and the commission, kazakhstan is willing and able in terms of its judicial system to implement this convention. the hague convention aims to protect children from abduction, which occurs in particular in cases of divorce between parents of different nationalities. if one parent decides to take the child to his or her home country, and that country is not part of the international child abduction cooperation, it can easily take custody of the child. in fact, courts in a non-cooperating state usually entrust the child to the care of the parent who is a national of that state. however, if the state is a party to the hague convention, the situation can be dealt with at international level and the courts and legislation of the state in which the child is domiciled will be determined to have jurisdiction. the final step for the entry into force of this convention between kazakhstan and the european union is the ratification by some of the remaining eu member states.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention (1980) on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument, ratified by all eu member states. the convention created a cooperative system between the signatory states with the goal of resolving cases of international child abduction. most often, reports of child abduction are the result of a couple separating, where the mother and father are from different states. states often are unwilling or unable to cooperate with one another during instances of child abduction as a result of national bias of differing legal systems. parents frequently exploit these legal and judicial disparities in order to secure full custody of the child in a particular state. i voted in favour of the accession of kazakhstan so that child abduction at the international level can be resolved through the competent courts of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, we have seen an increase in cases of international child abduction, as it is common for the mother and father to come from different countries. in case of disagreement, they try to win their offspring back by taking them to their country of origin, because they rely on the fact that the countries are not cooperating and therefore it will be more difficult for them to get the child back. i therefore believe that there should be a unified system of cooperation between states to find solutions to international child abduction. at present, there may still be cases where the courts of both countries give the child into the custody of the parent who is a national of that country. the hague convention, which has been ratified by all eu states, addresses these situations and also establishes a system for the immediate return of a kidnapped child to his or her home country. i therefore welcome kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention and am confident that this step will help to better protect children in the event of their abduction across national borders.
in writing. - i voted yes. i consider the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction to be a useful instrument for international cooperation, especially in cases of mixed marriages where one of the parents takes the child to his or her country of origin. this decision authorises member states to approve the accession of the republic of korea to the convention. but sadly, the eu's approval is required by the member states.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international kidnapping is of fundamental importance and has already been ratified by all the states of the european union. i am therefore very pleased that south korea has also taken this step, significantly expanding the scope for cooperation on child abduction. the republic of korea is willing and able, in terms of its judicial system, to implement the convention, according to the experts and the commission. the hague convention aims to protect children from abduction, which occurs in particular in cases of divorce between parents of different nationalities. if one parent decides to take the child to his or her home country, and that country is not part of the international child abduction cooperation, it can easily take custody of the child. in fact, courts in a non-cooperating state usually entrust the child to the care of the parent who is a national of that state. however, if the state is a party to the hague convention, the situation can be dealt with at international level and the courts and legislation of the state in which the child is domiciled will be determined to have jurisdiction. the final step for the entry into force of this convention between south korea and the european union is the ratification by some of the remaining eu member states.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention (1980) on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument, ratified by all eu member states. the convention created a cooperative system between the signatory states in the goal of resolving cases of international child abduction. most often, reports of child abduction are the result of a couple separating, where the mother and father are from different states. states often are unwilling or unable to cooperate with one another during instances of child abduction as a result of national bias of differing legal systems. parents frequently exploit these legal and judicial disparities in order to secure full custody of the child in a particular state. i voted in favour of the accession of korea so that child abduction at the international level can be resolved through the competent courts of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, we have seen an increase in cases of international child abduction, as it is common for the mother and father to come from different countries. in case of disagreement, they try to win their offspring back by taking them to their country of origin, because they rely on the fact that the countries are not cooperating and therefore it will be more difficult for them to get the child back. i therefore believe that there should be a unified system of cooperation between states to find solutions to international child abduction. at present, there may still be cases where the courts of both countries give the child into the custody of the parent who is a national of that country. the hague convention, which has been ratified by all eu states, addresses these situations and also establishes a system for the immediate return of a kidnapped child to his or her home country. i therefore welcome the accession of the republic of korea to the hague convention and am confident that this step will help to better protect children in the event of their abduction across national borders.
mr president, i also supported this motion for a resolution as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development. i believe that we should support agricultural production in the states, especially in the poorest states, where their current capacities are not sufficient, and therefore it is necessary to move towards innovation, higher productivity, and more efficient agricultural production. that's very important. in my own state, i've always been a very strong advocate of local, regional agricultural production, because then it has the least cost, which could hurt transportation, could hurt other emissions within those regions, so regional agriculture needs to be supported. i think that sometimes, unfortunately, our politics is in such a contradiction. we want to support those poor countries, but there are often human rights violations. in this sense, we should consider whether saving lives is more important to us than supporting authoritarian regimes to some extent. we're gonna have to deal with that one day.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu's global objectives and commitments for nutrition and food security in the world, which is in line with the vision of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, a joint plan agreed by the un states to eliminate extreme poverty and transform the economy towards sustainability by 2030. the resolution stresses the need to prevent systemic problems that cause malnutrition through the involvement of all economic and social actors and other stakeholders. in the area of food safety, it places particular emphasis on the role of the private sector and the improvement of approaches and systems in agriculture.
in writing. ‒ given that the second sdg and its related sub-goals are aimed at eradicating hunger and malnutrition by 2030, in particular by providing opportunities for smallholders and increasing their productivity, and at achieving sustainable and climate-resilient agricultural and food systems capable of feeding the projected world population (8.5 billion in 2030) while protecting biodiversity, the environment and the interests and well-being of these smallholders, the nature of the debate on next steps to achieve the global goals and to meet the eu's commitments on nutrition and food security worldwide is of fundamental importance, i voted in favour of the report. i also fully agreed that the privatisation of seeds through intellectual property rights and genetically modified organisms threatened the food self-sufficiency of countries, and i hope that the commission will be aware of this when it negotiates international agreements.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the call for member states to invest in sustainable agriculture with safe food. it's hypocritical, because it's the eu's biofuel policies that are driving up food prices and leading poor countries to grow biofuel crops instead of food crops. instead, the eu should recognise that the problems of nutrition and malnutrition, the rise in food prices, are the result of its policy of supporting biofuels. this report does not say that, it simply calls for further regulation.
in writing. i supported the resolution, which rightly points to the continued underinvestment in nutrition, with only 0,57 per cent of total oda spent on nutrition-related interventions in 2014, covering only 1,4 per cent of total needs. the resolution points out that one of the most significant barriers to human development is stunting, where the growth of the child is too small for its age and occurs in the case of chronic malnutrition and recurrent infections during the first 1,000 days of life, which impede the normal growth and development of the child. the commission should therefore fulfil its commitment to invest eur 3,5 billion to reduce the number of stunted children by at least 7 million by 2025. however, it should be added that of the €3.5 billion pledged, only €400 million is earmarked for supporting nutrition-related interventions, while the remaining €3.1 billion is not earmarked for the immediate causes of malnutrition but for addressing nutrition-related problems such as agriculture, food security, water, hygiene and education.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important to ensure universal access to healthier and more sustainable diets for all people without distinction in all parts of the world. i therefore supported this motion for a resolution which proposes measures to achieve food security, improve nutrition, promote sustainable agriculture and eradicate hunger. without coordinated policies at the global and local levels, we have no chance of improving the situation.
in writing. ‒ inadequate nutrition is one of the most significant impediments to human development and there is an absolute urgency to reach internationally agreed nutrition targets. ending hunger and malnutrition by 2030 is the sustainable development goal 2. further, the commission’s nutrition action plan pledged to reduce stunting by 7 million children by 2025. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution calling for accelerated action to fulfil the 2030 agenda and to reach sdg 2 to end hunger and to guarantee the development of social safety nets in order to reduce extreme poverty, as the level of investment in nutrition today remains inadequate. i believe the resolution, which calls for an additional eu commitment of eur 1 billion addressing nutrition-specific interventions, represents a step in the right direction toward eradicating hunger, malnutrition and food waste.
mr president, i certainly agree with my predecessors that we must fight fraud, that this is the task of all the institutions within the european union, but as regards the very establishment and functioning of the public prosecutor's office in criminal matters, i am rather sceptical about its functioning. there is no doubt that the investigating authorities, that is to say the bodies that we are already setting up, whether it is eurojust or europol, must cooperate, but a criminal process that is governed by rather fundamental national principles, that is to say that it proceeds according to criminal laws that are mostly national, so at that point, in my opinion, such a public prosecutor will be in a very difficult situation. and it would be better if we actually cooperated in the investigation and the level of criminal prosecution in that trial phase was left to the national prosecutors. that is why i abstained from this vote.
in writing. ‒ in general, i believe there is a case for establishment of the european public prosecutor’s office as it would enhance coordination of activities of member states as well as more effectively facing cross-border crime such as tax avoidance, for instance. i voted in favour of the resolution also because it calls for better cooperation with eurojust. i think we need to strengthen eurojust’s role in the judicial cooperation and coordination of relevant authorities of the member states.
in writing. on 5 october 2016, we voted on the resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust at the plenary session of the european parliament in strasbourg. for more than 19 years, european politicians have been talking about the creation of a new eu body - the european public prosecutor's office. this institution, which allows the eu to establish article 86 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, has been heavily criticised for years by both the lay and professional public. the controversy surrounding the commission's proposal to set up the office has also resulted in the second use of the early warning mechanism in history. the czech republic also issued a yellow card for the proposal. i do not think that anything has changed substantially since the first proposal was tabled and the concerns of many member states have been allayed. moreover, in these turbulent times the eu is experiencing, it would be very unwise to force member states to do something else that they fundamentally disagree with. i could therefore not support the rapporteur's request for the creation of a european public prosecutor's office and for the reopening of the discussion in the council on the proposal for its creation and i voted against.
in writing. - i voted against it. i am against the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office. the eu also wants the prosecutor to include taxes (vat) and become a financial police. i consider this an unacceptable interference with the competences of the member states.
‒ the eu and all member states must be able to effectively combat financial fraud that harms their interests and thereby protect taxpayers. eu countries also face a growing problem of crossborder organised crime. in this respect, i consider eurojust to be a key instrument, which makes cooperation between member states' investigative authorities more efficient and helps to build mutual trust and to overcome differences between a wide variety of legal systems and traditions. however, to improve the fight against any kind of organised crime and to increase mutual assistance in investigations, further steps are needed. that is why i also support the creation of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office. however, before the new investigating authority is established, it is necessary to ensure that it is independent and effective. in order to ensure that the powers of the prosecutor are sufficient, it is first necessary to approve the directive on the fight against fraud to the union's financial interests by means of criminal law, which lays down the criminal offences for which the office will have jurisdiction. the eppo will also be able to provide the necessary legal assistance to the eppo in the event of a dispute arising from the application of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ the european public prosecutor’s office, intended to act as an independent eu body that is able to prosecute crimes affecting the eu’s financial interest, would help fill in the current institutional gap that currently exists, as only national authorities can prosecute eu fraud by means of criminal law, however not across national borders. i voted in favour of the eppo because of its independent nature, which will make way for improved efficiencies in the prosecution of eu fraud cases. it is estimated by the european commission that fraud against the eu’s financial interests costs around eur 3 billion every year. the creation of a european public prosecutor’s office is essential to ensure that fraud against the eu’s financial interests is tackled equally in all member states.
in writing. ‒ even though european industry is important part of the eu economy, i voted against the resolution. it uses recent cases of businesses deciding to move their activities to another part of the eu as a case for establishing a european reindustrialisation policy. yes, there will be employees left without jobs and we have to make sure we help them to cope with their uneasy situation, offer them support and new opportunities. on the other hand, the companies have decided to move within the internal market and they should be free to do so, as this is one of the key principles of eu integration.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to launch a policy of reindustrialisation in europe. this priority is all the more important given the recent closure of some large industrial enterprises with a long tradition and the accompanying increase in unemployment. i supported the resolution in the points that did not meet with opposition, especially from the liberal and some of the people's deputies. these were all points of key importance in the further policy of reindustrialisation, without which the reindustrialisation project would remain mere phrases, such as the preference for short-term profit over a longer-term concept or the proposal for the participation of employees in the preparation of the restructuring plan.
in writing. on wednesday 5 october 2016, we voted in plenary on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases. the situation surrounding the massive layoffs in the european part of caterpillar best illustrates the disgusting behavior of corporations in the eu today. international corporations in our territory exploit the workforce, export profits abroad, and at the first sign of any problems, they leave. these kids will just use us and throw us away like old toys. caterpillar, which has been investigated by the u.s. congress for profit-making and non-payment, is not behaving in an unusual way. our faction had the opportunity to meet with caterpillar employees during the meeting. so we had a pretty solid idea of what the employees of this company wanted to say. although the joint resolution was surprisingly well written, especially with regard to the need for reindustrialization and the move away from the blind closure of heavy industry, which means the loss of thousands of jobs due to the fight against climate change, all the amendments that the caterpillar workers wanted to mention did not pass. that's why i abstained. the rights and protection of workers will always be a primary concern for me, which is why i intend to continue to fight against ttip, ceta, etc., which only further support the behaviour exhibited by caterpillar.
in writing. - i voted against it. the european parliament has no say in the restructuring of companies (caterpillar or alstom). the resolution calls for a 'european industrial policy' to protect eu workers. he wants protectionism at the expense of consumers and taxpayers. i also don't agree with calls for subsidizing the information and energy networks. the report calls for the implementation of a centrally managed protectionist policy, and i do not support that.
in writing. i abstained on the resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases, because i do not consider it correct and systematic for the ep to deal with individual cases of companies and their management decisions on restructuring. i am against the politicization of these individual cases, which necessarily leads to the resolution being supposed to deal with reindustrialisation, but in reality it is more of a trade unionist nature and as such has become a hostage of the left, which in itself prevents a serious and comprehensive approach to the problem of restructuring large companies facing the pressures of economic globalisation. i think that the agenda of re-industrialisation, improving the labour market in the union and negotiating fair conditions for foreign trade (including relations with china) is a very important agenda of the union, but it should not be confused with specific social problems (however, of course, i feel sorry for the people who lose their jobs in this and similar cases, and i am convinced that the social systems of the countries as well as some eu funds are effectively helping them). a functioning economy or a well-functioning, sustainable social and fiscal system is the main thing that national governments and parliaments should promote and thereby ensure a good quality of life for their citizens.
in writing. in september this year, caterpillar announced a broad restructuring plan which included the closure of a plant in belgium, which will result in the layoff of more than 2 500 workers at the plant itself and will threaten the employment of more than 4 000 workers in subcontracting firms. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. in my view, the european union must respond to a situation where the rights of workers are seriously threatened and where large multinational companies refuse to cooperate in the long term to find solutions that minimise regional social impacts. but in the end, they all lose. however, i would like to remind you at this point that the european parliament should pay equal attention to similar cases in other eu countries.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the light of recent cases such as caterpillar (belgium) and alstom (france). i express my strong solidarity and support to all workers of caterpillar and alstom and their families, as well as to the subcontractors involved, and regret the detrimental effects that such closures have on local economies and communities. nevertheless i decided to abstain on the final vote as the cases at caterpillar and alstom were a symptom of europe’s industrial malaise. indeed i deplore the absence of a long-term vision for european industry and this text did not propose a sustainable solution and vision for the future.
madam president, mr korčok, as regards mr putin, this is a question of a cult of power. this is what you will be told by the russian opposition – what remains of it – whether it is left, centre or right. this is what you will hear. it was about georgia, then it was donbas, crimea. it is syria today, and we can speculate on what it is going to be tomorrow. all that is an instrument, an instrument for the recovery of russia and of putin. it is an instrument of domestic politics. it is an instrument for increasing influence, and it is an instrument for dividing the european union and separating us from our allies. this is what it is about. mr korčok, if you have a debate in the european council, two out of the three main issues are related. migration, where we are heavily affected. of course what we are seeing today is again intentional. this is intentional because this will produce further migration, which will of course primarily affect europe. the second issue is the strategy on russia. what we will also expect is that in this framework, we will see at least the basic points of a strategy on syria. it is badly needed. if that does not come out of the european council, then i am afraid this is a failure. and what is it about? well, we should be at the table. you have said yourself, we are the biggest donor. it is high time that we are a part of the negotiations around the main table and that we really have the hard force. that is another important question: unless we really address the question of our military capacities, integrated ones, we will never be partners. the final two remarks. a no-fly zone for sure. sanctions, as has been said, not just against russia, but also against those that are an active part of that conflict. finally, as i have said, we need to build our own capacities, our own capabilities, our own abilities, including political and defence. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – no, i do not see any association and connection at all with complicating the situation. i fully respect that you are on the way out from the eu. i respect that you do not see any need or prospect for the defence capabilities of the european union. i fully respect that, but it goes without saying that, without those capabilities, we will not be in a position to really tackle the core of the problem. i have not heard from either you or your colleagues about russia’s inhumanity.
mr. chairman, syria has long been a geopolitical battleground between the west and the anti-western coalition, best represented by russia and iran. the assad regime, that is, the successor to the essentially socialist regime implanted in the region by the former soviet union, and also the assad clan was the soviet union's most loyal ally. that's why russia is holding the regime back. however, we still have the so-called islamic state as a literally anti-civilization movement, and we also have the anti-establishment opposition, which unfortunately is often composed of radicals who are not very different from fanatics like the islamic state or al-qaeda or the taliban, and our task is to determine the sequence of steps that we want to achieve, that is, both defeating the islamic state, and not allowing russia to become the geopolitical hegemon in the region, and not allowing radical islamization of the country. we haven't made much progress on this, and we haven't been able to properly assess these priorities.
mr president, legislation regulating access to abortion is a matter exclusively for the eu member states, but unfortunately in poland a law was discussed in the first reading which provoked great protests in poland. and i understand the polish colleagues in the european parliament who have asked us for a gesture of solidarity, and that is why i am speaking. when i introduced a bill in the czech parliament in 2003 to protect unborn life and to tighten access to abortion, i was inspired by the law that is in force in poland today. poland has a law that allows abortion only in cases of threat to the life of the woman or rape, and the number of abortions, 2,000 per year, corresponds to this. what doesn't match is that poland is failing to increase the number of children born. colleagues, the only way to protect life is not to ban it. to encourage young people to have children, to be mothers, to not be afraid to give birth, we need to create the right conditions and be able to appreciate motherhood. today's society values material things, and people fear poverty and social insecurity. i am personally against abortion and i think that everything must be done so that women do not have to choose abortion, so that they can look forward to their children. these measures include, of course, a range of social measures, affordable housing, affordable care for young children, the provision of job opportunities, but the first condition will always be responsible behaviour, which should also be helped by education in responsible parenting and social recognition of the value of motherhood. ladies and gentlemen, i wish poland that we do not have to repeat such debates here in parliament. it is up to the polish parliament and the government to decide on ethical issues in poland. but if they provoke protests, citizens in the member states should know that meps will stand in solidarity and support the position of their colleagues.
madam president, with all due respect to the democratically elected government in poland, i cannot understand how it could have chosen to prefer a backward and backward policy in relation to women's rights. i'm very sad today and very proud. very sad, because we're talking about things that i thought were completely off the agenda in any country in the 21st century. and very proud of the majority in the european parliament that has shown polish women that they are not alone. but, commissioner, let me ask you one thing. we must move from words to deeds, because if we do not, we risk polish women dying because they cannot have the procedure that would save their lives, and we also risk the possibility that similar obscure and medieval laws will follow in poland. i don't want that, and i'm sure you don't either.
member of the commission. madam president, as a commissioner i remain a woman and a mother of a daughter, and therefore i would like to make a final statement as a woman and i would like to do so in my mother tongue, i would like to do so in czech, because i see a certain symbolism in that too. i think as a person of polish ancestry, as a person who i think understands the polish language quite well, and understands the poles in many things, including a certain sensitivity and alertness to situations where they want, like the czechs, like all other nations in europe, to decide for themselves on important matters. i understand the poles in that this vigilance stems from the fact that we have lived through a period in an undemocratic society, a period and a regime that did not recognize the freedom and dignity of the individual. i remember it personally, when the revolution was in 1989, i was 25 years old. what i don't understand is the bill, which i hope will not be questioned until it is finally passed, because i think it is not an abortion bill, but that it is a bill against the people, that it is a bill against human dignity, against human freedom, against the freedom of a woman to decide about her body and her life. it is a particularly powerful and symbolic moment for me to say this here today on the day that czech president vaclav havel would have celebrated his untimely 80th birthday, because it was he who always stood for individual freedom and human dignity. yes, ladies and gentlemen, i said earlier that i completely respect and honour the issue of competence in the sense that the european union does not have the competence to impose on any state legislation concerning reproductive rights, but at the same time i myself am in this dilemma because i value human freedom and dignity above all. and let me remind you of a very powerful moment that we had here together, when pope francis was here before christmas in 2014, i was fresh in office, and he made a lot of powerful appeals to us as politicians. among other things, he said: "you have forgotten the dignity of the individual for all the institutions, procedures, disputes of competence". and i am mentioning this today in the sense and in the context that the words were heard here, that the debate is useless, that we should not discuss it at all here, because here we have a problem with subsidiarity. but i think that these are the things that we should be talking about here, and it's very important that each of us step out of the trenches and speak up for ourselves, because the issue that we're talking about here today is also very subtle, very intimate, and i believe it's rightly called a matter of conscience. at the same time, i would like to remind you that i believe that the vast majority of women who have to have an abortion do not do so out of their own free will, that they do so under the pressure of reality, and that we should not deny them that choice.
in writing. – women in poland and all europe are astounded by the current debate on abortion rights held in poland. if the proposed tightening passes, it means nothing less than a woman will not be able to undergo an abortion even after rape or incest – and will not be able to interrupt a pregnancy in cases where it is obvious that the child will be born with severe disabilities. this is not a policy we should ever support in the eu of the 21st century. every woman should have the right to choose; we all have the right to choose. it is illusory to think that such a law would eradicate abortions. it will just make them illegal and more dangerous. the result will be abortion tourism, and for those who cannot afford it, illegal abortion under terrible conditions risking health and even sometimes the life of a woman. let me put it clearly: such a proposal brings us back to middle ages and has no place in modern european society. it has to be denied strictly and immediately. i want to make sure that polish women know we are with them in their fight for their rights and freedom of choice.
madam president, first of all, i would like to clarify one thing, i had announced in advance that i wanted to exchange with mr. schöpflin, but i think that this information was not given to you because mr. schöpflin was on his way. so i just want you to take this information that we passed on to the ushers into account when mr. schöpflin gets the floor. by the way, mr. commissioner, let me congratulate you on your performance today, because if colleague arnott said that your proposal is really good, then you can congratulate yourself, because he never said that about any of your proposals, and i think that you definitely deserve to pop not a bottle, least of all the best champagne. and as for the register itself, i would say on behalf of the ppe: the ppe has a very supportive attitude. we have, of course, always supported and continue to support the lobby register and the transparency register. but we're saying one thing, so we don't all be chasing after one black cat, hiding somewhere, running from side to side. just because i put a lobbyist on a register doesn't mean that the lobbyist is actually going to be there and that he's always going to admit to my meetings. and the way we're going to enforce that on these individuals is going to be quite difficult, and the way that it's going to be proven. i am very pleased that jean claude juncker has made this initiative one of his main priorities since taking office. if the european union is to be transparent, who else should be more transparent than institutions such as the council, the commission and the parliament, which should set an example? first of all, the european parliament must be more open and therefore more credible to the european citizens who elected us here. so let's do what the european commission is proposing, systematically register lobbyists and other interest groups that can influence us politicians, and create a functioning framework for our interaction with this public.
madam president, as we speak today of the periodic report on the application of european union law, we can recall the words of the first president of the european commission, walter hallstein, who said: 'the community is a creation of law, that is the decisive innovation that distinguishes it from previous attempts to unify europe, not violence, not slavery is used as an instrument, but the spiritual cultural force, the law.' these words may remind us that law is more than a technical matter. in this context, i would like to support the commission in its role as guardian of the treaties, because i believe that its specific role is essential at the present time, and it is only right that the commission should defend not only the letter but also the spirit of european legislation. if we agree on certain rules together, we must also show the will to observe them together and find the will to enforce them. this can also contribute to a positive perception of the european union among its citizens. i would also like to draw attention to the related issue of the quality of the rules adopted. i hope that we will continue to improve alongside the commission and the council and find common ground, including on european union administrative law.
madam president, i would like to focus my brief contribution on the question of the transposition periods only, because in my view, if the obligation of a state to comply with the adoption of a european law standard in its national law is not fulfilled in the long term, the rights of eu citizens are often violated. and we should be more effective in confronting this. i do not know whether a new legal instrument could be devised to better respond to this situation in the field of european law, but i think it is clear that it is precisely the long-term breach of the transposition deadline by the member states that is totally unacceptable. i can also illustrate this with the problem of the czech republic, where the european union directive is currently being incorporated into copyright law with a delay, and this delay has the consequence that citizens cannot purchase copyright from, for example, some other collective management organisations registered in eu member states. the directive was supposed to bring more competition to this area, and this has not yet happened in the czech republic. i think we should focus on that.
for the ppe group. madam president, the main purpose of this resolution is to remind the rwandan government that democracy is based on a pluralist government, a functioning opposition, an independent media and judiciary, and respect for human rights. unfortunately, we have seen in the case of victoire ingabire that rwanda is far behind in this respect and that it is necessary for the authorities there, including president kagame, to ensure that the basic principles of a democratic society are respected. as the european union has repeatedly pointed out, rwanda needs to focus on respecting human rights and the right to a fair trial. in this context, the whole process must be reopened and reviewed according to the standards of both rwandan and international law. we cannot continue to tolerate the fact that rwanda's courts are politically motivated or opposition politicians are prosecuted for their views and activities.
author. – madam president, ever since february 2003 and well before, we have seen in the darfur region nothing but violence and ethnic cleansing, all done or conducted by government forces, the secret service and pro-government militia. the united nations calls this one of the worst humanitarian crises ever, with 2.3 million displaced and 300 000 casualties. the dictatorship in khartoum is abusing human rights on a daily basis and is preventing aid workers, ngos, peacekeepers and others access to aid those in need. by the way, i am grateful to my colleagues that they have accepted a proposal to name concretely the aid workers concerned, including one countryman of mine. moreover, as has been said, amnesty international has investigated the fact that in the last eight months there has been repeated use of chemical weapons. this sudanese situation must end. enough is really enough. that is why today we call on all stakeholders involved to act quickly and to put an end to this situation. omar al-bashir is a war criminal and, if the rest of the world does not want to act, the eu has to move and impose targeted punitive sanctions against those responsible for continued war crimes and non-cooperation with the international court of justice.
for the ppe group. madam president, unfortunately sudan is one of the countries which we have not mentioned here for the first time in the context of human rights. 15 months ago, the european parliament defended marjam ibrahim, a sudanese religious intolerance victim who was subsequently released. but we are witnessing human rights violations all the time. i would therefore like to reiterate the european parliament's recommendation to the council of june 2013 that development aid should only be provided where freedom of religion is respected. i have repeatedly stressed my conviction in the universality of human rights, but let me emphasise the right to freedom of religion throughout the resolution, in the context of czech citizen petr jašek, who has been imprisoned in sudan for several months, and i call on the sudanese government to release him immediately.
mr president, i support the resolution on human rights violations and the rule of law in sudan. i think it's very important that we report on specific cases of detention of local priests and humanitarian workers. among them is also a citizen of the czech republic, petr jašek. in sudan, these individuals have assisted local populations in areas plagued by military dictatorships, military conflicts and have subsequently been accused of anti-state activities by the intolerant sudanese regime. they are now facing trial, and their lives are in danger. these men and women worked daily in dangerous areas to help the local people with humanitarian work and to give them hope for a better life. now it is up to us to stand up not only for their efforts, but for them themselves, and to appeal to the sudanese authorities to make the fate of these volunteers better, and to appeal in the sense that we are not indifferent. we want their release. and i'm asking you, commissioner, to press for their release.
mr president, i would also like to speak in favour of the citizens who are detained in sudan, including, of course, the czech citizen mentioned by mrs šojdrová. commissioner, please advocate for the release of these people. however, if we look at the situation in sudan in a broader perspective, what we see here is not only a humanitarian disaster, not only violations of basic human rights, but we also see, of course, the abuse of the aid that is being delivered. and this is a political conflict to some extent, because on the one hand we want to help these extremely poor citizens whose lives depend on this aid, and on the other hand we see this abuse. i think we should try to support specific projects that lead to greater innovation in agriculture in this area, for example, if it's even a little bit possible, because they help to address the situation on the ground.
author. – mr president, madam commissioner, reporting human rights violations is not a crime. andy hall has been unjustly punished by thailand for reporting violations by thailand of its own laws and international commitments. people should not be punished for bringing injustices to light. this verdict sends an alarming message to all defenders of rights in thailand. the thai government has taken measures to improve working conditions. it should confirm this commitment by pardoning andy hall and amending the laws under which he was convicted, including the computer crime act, to make clear that these laws should not be abused to suppress individuals’ fundamental rights.
mr president, if someone discloses an injustice, if he asks for an investigation into a breach of the law and is actually convicted under a certain rubber law, then this undoubtedly indicates the nature of such a regime. i am convinced that thailand cannot be called a democratic state, i am sorry, it is a beautiful country, however, the power is now in the army and the army is exercising it in a way that is really contrary to the basic requirements that we put on democracy. i would therefore be very grateful if both the commissioner and the commission would always consider very clearly what kind of aid they would give to such a state so that it can really help those in need and not just strengthen the regime.
mr president, i propose that we amend paragraph 6 of the resolution, so that at the end of the paragraph we add the words: ‘and especially concerning’ and then we add the four names you have in the voting lists. i have three reasons for this amendment. firstly, among the four there is a european citizen, a czech national, petr jašek. we simply should stand behind our people and, at the same time, not forget the other three. secondly, we are voting on urgent cases, urgent individual cases and not country-by-country reports. concrete names make a difference. lastly, these four people are threatened by a death sentence; to be or not to be mentioned in this resolution can make the difference between life and death. i therefore beg you, colleagues, to kindly accept this amendment.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the attempt to subordinate accounting standards to eu objectives (ep calls on the commission to ensure that ifrs 9 serves the eu's long-term investment strategy). accounting standards are supposed to be neutral in relation to business and the attempt to subordinate them to eu investment plans could lead to excessive risk-taking by firms.
in writing. i supported the resolution because ifrs 9 represents an improvement by moving away from the loss-based model and adopting the expected loss-based impairment model, which addresses the problem of late adoption of too weak measures in the credit loss recognition process. on the other hand, i note that no proper quantitative impact assessment has been carried out for ifrs 9, partly due to the absence of reliable data. however, in order to assess the impact of ifrs 9 on the banking and insurance sectors, on financial markets in general and on the financial sector as a whole, it is necessary for the relevant institutions to strengthen their capacity to conduct impact assessments, in particular in the macroeconomic area.
in writing. ‒ international financial reporting standards (ifrs) reform came about as a result of the global financial crisis: the aim is to boost stability and growth, in particular through the rules regarding the recognition of losses incurred in the banking system, and placing these issues on the g20 and eu agendas. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe in the importance of long-term investment for economic growth and i believe ifrs 9 serves the eu’s long-term investment strategy and reduces pro-cyclicality as well as lessening incentives for excessive risk taking.
mr president, the situation in syria is not just a humanitarian disaster, it is a huge tragedy, and i would very much like to mention the role of russia, which is clearly evident at this moment. i think she showed up naked. russia commits, in my opinion, war crimes, commits them in the name of its own progress, not in the name of, say, the order of things in this country. we should refine the sanctions lists drawn up by the european union and, for this reason, include additional groups of persons on them. toughen sanctions on dual-use goods, including, of course, possible further tightening of sanctions on agricultural production. these impacts that go into the ordinary businesses, into the lives of companies and entrepreneurs, we should of course also compensate for those. i nevertheless supported this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ since hostilities in syria have escalated recently – particularly in aleppo, which is currently facing unjustified attacks against medical facilities and has been under heavy aerial bombardment – i voted in favour of the resolution calling for more effort in mediation for a peace deal in syria. i also welcome the eu emergency humanitarian initiative for aleppo, which aims to bring much-needed help, and i join in the call to all parties involved to stop attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure immediately.
in writing. the syrian and russian armies have agreed to a ceasefire several times since this spring, but it was broken rather quickly through no fault of theirs. russian officials have repeatedly asked the us administration to clearly identify individual resistance groups. the situation is very confusing and it is clear that neither al-nusra front nor is can be among the negotiating partners. the situation is much more complicated for other groups. particularly alarming is the recent statement by the us government that they do not want to negotiate with russia on this matter. the heavily media-driven image of eastern aleppo is just one of the places where misinformation is being used to try to convince the world public that the russian and syrian military are still killing civilians. during the late summer, a ceasefire allowed civilians to leave the city. the so-called democratic opposition units have prevented the evacuation militarily and are currently using heavy artillery to try to take the rest of the city. the situation is certainly not black and white, as the representatives of the united states, great britain and france are trying to tell us during the un general assembly. peace in syria will not secure additional millions of dollars from the gulf states, nor will it ensure the imposition of sweeping economic sanctions on the syrian regime. the western states' position is incomprehensible and precludes the achievement of a peaceful solution to the conflicts in the region. preferential reception of refugees in eu countries will also not help bring peace.
in writing. - i got held up. amendments criticising the supply of arms to the islamic state or criticising turkey for fighting the kurdish militia in syria failed to pass. calling on all parties to the conflict not to attack civilians is futile, the warring parties will not do anything about it.
in writing. ‒ i consider it important that the ep in its resolution condemns all the crimes committed against the civilian population of syria and the systematic violations of human rights and international humanitarian law in connection with the terrorist acts committed by the so-called islamic state and other radical armed groups against the syrian population. we should have the courage to point out that attacks bordering on war crimes and crimes against humanity are being committed by the assad regime and russia, which is aiding it. the eu should speak with a stronger and more forceful voice and step up its engagement in syria on the side of the kurdish and moderate arab opposition and categorically reject russia's claim that the moderate and radical opposition in syria cannot be distinguished, which it uses as an alibi to justify the massacres of civilians in aleppo in airstrikes deliberately targeting civilian targets, including hospitals.
in writing. i supported the resolution of the european parliament on syria. the war in syria is now in its fifth year, and it has claimed nearly half a million lives, almost three times as many as the war in yugoslavia in the first half of the 1990s. it goes without saying that this war is a major source of migration and instability. i am therefore prepared to support any initiative that deals with this conflict in good faith with a view to contributing to its end. in retrospect, i regret that the west has not been more active in this war, even though our involvement has been effectively hampered by a number of factors, such as the opacity of the conflict, the varying interests of the regional powers, and the large number of warring parties. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus. once a bustling and wealthy city, it has gradually been reduced to ruins, mostly under bombardment by government troops and, more recently, by the russian federation. recent events, which have resulted in the deaths of many civilians, have led to our conviction. the resolution is therefore primarily an appeal to the assad regime and russia to cease all attacks on the civilian population and civilian infrastructure. i support this call, as well as the call for eu high representative mogherini to take steps to increase eu involvement in the search for a peaceful solution in syria.
in writing. ‒ the civil war in syria, five years in, represents one of the worst humanitarian disasters of the 21st century. the pro-assad coalition forces, including russia, have launched incessant and worsening attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure. the continuation of sieges and the lack of humanitarian access to the people in syria have become more alarming with every passing day. the human suffering in the besieged areas of aleppo and throughout the rest of syria has affected nearly everyone, including women and children, who lack access to humanitarian goods, food, clean water and medical supplies. i voted in favour of the resolution on syria, and i deeply deplore and unconditionally condemn the recent attacks on humanitarian relief convoys, which represent a severe violation of international humanitarian law and embody possible war crimes. i urge all military forces, particularly the assad regime and russia, to return to the ceasefire agreement of 26 september 2016.
mr president, i would like to say that the paris conference can certainly be described as a success. the next round is coming up and it's good that we voted for this resolution. i supported him myself. i have to agree in part that, of course, the forces of nature are overwhelmingly powerful and that humans are just a small cog or a decidedly smaller cog in the climate change that is unquestionably taking place, but we would be foolish not to actually try to do at least the little we can to affect climate change. and for that reason, we should also have a policy of thrift. i think it's about how many of us are able to be humble in our own lives, how to be conservative with our values, with our energies. it's all really connected to everything. so that is why i supported this motion for a resolution.
in writing. on 6 october 2016, we voted in plenary on a resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and on the un climate change conference to be held in marrakech, morocco, in 2016. unfortunately, the european parliament delegation is not directly involved in the cop negotiations. the eu is represented only by the current presidency and the commission, which are unelected representatives, a position that has long been criticised by parliament. in addition, the text reiterates the role of the ets in combating co2 emissions. according to the latest oecd report, 90% of co2 emissions are under-rated. in other words, public budgets are in practice charging the vast majority of co2 emitters less money than they have to spend to repair the damage they have caused. the report argues that the price of allowances below eur 30/tonne is completely inadequate, which shows that the current system is absolutely failing. as a shadow reporter for his reform and future changes, which i don't think will be enough, i see, i don't understand the constant adoration of this system. in my view, a better way is to set precise, legally binding limits, enforce them rigorously and combine them, for example, with a carbon tax. the motion for a resolution before us is slightly more favourable than in previous years, but it still contains a lot of nonsense with which i cannot identify.
in writing. i voted against it. i do not agree with the call for developed countries, especially the eu, to significantly reduce their greenhouse gas emissions below the limit of existing commitments. i don't agree with the challenge to decarbonize by 2050, because i believe that natural gas, for example, is still an important commodity for us, for example, for heating. i object to the challenge to fill the $100 billion fund for project funding.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution, which among other things stresses the need to make greater efforts to ensure that climate finance is mobilised to meet the usd 100 billion target by 2020. this is a relatively large amount, which is intended to go mainly to emerging economies. for now, however, it is largely paper money. therefore, a focus should be placed on the adoption of concrete eu and international commitments that would help to raise additional funding to finance climate action, such as projects to support technical innovation. one way to achieve this could be to introduce a financial transaction tax on a global scale, possibly on the oecd platform.
in writing. ‒ the 22nd united nations conference of the parties (cop 22), which will be held in marrakesh, morocco in november 2016, is of particular importance because it will bring into force the paris climate change agreement adopted last year, a landmark achievement in combating climate change. the quick implementation of the paris agreement by all parties, including the eu, is of the utmost importance. while the paris agreement gave clear pathways and a final destination in respect of decisive action on climate change, many of the details regarding how to move forward as one global community in that common direction still need to be resolved. this meeting is therefore incredibly important. i voted in favour of the resolution, supporting the eu ambition that is in line with the objectives of the agreement. cop22 in marrakesh will take the first concrete steps to implement the paris agreement, which sets the objective of holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2° and pursues efforts to limit the increase to 1.5°.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the regulation on the use of materials intended to come into contact with foodstuffs, given the lack of specific eu action in this area. the european union dominates the global ranking with its high standards of food quality and consumer protection. emphasising compliance with standards to protect the health of eu citizens is one of its priorities and the proposal for this regulation will contribute to ensuring increased food safety. in order to protect consumers' health, there is a need to re-evaluate the regulatory framework and thereby facilitate the implementation of the legislation.
in writing. on 6 october 2016, we voted on the resolution on the application of the regulation on materials intended to come into contact with foodstuffs at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg. food contact materials are widely used in our daily lives, most commonly in the form of food packaging, kitchen utensils, utensils, etc. different materials can behave very differently when in contact with food, often transferring their constituents directly to the food. in such cases, those chemicals may endanger human health by adversely altering the composition of the food. as i have said for a long time on the issue of endocrine disruptors, with which packaging materials are also closely linked, we need to be very careful about what chemicals manufacturers are putting into our food and into the environment. the current situation is that european legislation only covers certain selected materials and the source regulation is already quite outdated. for example, it does not reflect in any way the key scientific findings concerning the harmfulness of the endocrine disruptors already mentioned. the rapporteur is therefore right to call on the european commission to revise it. i have tabled an amendment to the text with my colleagues concerning the prohibition of bisphenol a (bpa). i was happy to support the document because i think it is going in the right direction.
in writing. - i voted against it. while it is important that food packaging does not endanger the food packaged in it, i do not agree with the call to the commission to prioritise 'preparing standards for paper and cardboard', as this would only lead to unnecessary regulation.
in writing. ‒ one area where the eu should focus on food contact materials is to improve the traceability and compliance of those imported from third countries by requiring the presentation of proper and complete identification documents and declarations of conformity. imported food contact materials must comply with eu standards to protect public health and ensure fair competition. as regards products originating in the eu, i do not think that we need new or stricter regulation at eu level. it will be enough to be able to harmonise the level of enforcement of food contact materials legislation within the eu, where there are still often significant differences between countries. improved data exchange between member states is a prerequisite.
in writing. when in contact with food, different materials may behave differently depending on their composition and properties and their constituents may be released into food. this may endanger human health or adversely affect the composition of food. i therefore supported the report by mrs schaldemos and her call for the current eu legislation on food contact materials to be amended to provide a higher level of health protection. in my view, the emphasis should be placed, for example, on risk assessment and enforcement and control of compliance with the relevant rules.
in writing. the european parliament voted today on an own-initiative report on the application of the regulation on materials intended to come into contact with food, which i decided to support. the ep's initiative, which calls for a revision of the current framework regulation (ec) no 1935/2004 on materials intended to come into contact with food, is important, in my view, especially in the context of protecting human health. materials intended to come into contact with food (food packaging, kitchen utensils, tableware, etc.) contain a number of harmful chemicals that are released into food from these materials. eu citizens are thus exposed to a high risk of endangering their health when consuming food. i therefore welcome this recommendation, which seeks to maintain a high level of consumer protection while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market for these materials. the recommendations rightly emphasise the call to promote further research in this area, to ensure adequate control of goods and compliance and enforcement. the text also points out the need to comply with the standards laid down for goods imported from third countries.
in writing. ‒ food contact materials (fcms) are largely used in everyday life in the form of food packaging, kitchen utensils, tableware, etc. when in contact with food, and depending on their composition and properties, the different materials may behave differently, transferring their constituents to the food. in such cases, chemicals emanating from fcms may endanger human health or adversely change the composition of the foodstuffs. the most pressing issue is the need to adopt eu specific measures for food contact materials that are widely used in europe, such as paper and board, both virgin and recycled, and for materials that may pose a significant risk to human health, such as inks, metals or coatings. i voted in favour of the report and i fully support the call for the revision of current eu rules on food contact materials. many substances are currently not harmonized at eu level, a goal that is in the interest of both consumers and operators. consumers would benefit from the higher eu-wide standards of consumer protection and operators from the legal certainty that uniform rules bring.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 annual report on monitoring the application of union law because it contains interesting information on the current implementation and practical application of eu law. it is a large-scale analysis reflecting also the effectiveness of the dialogue with member states, with the conclusion that the enforcement of eu law is still not sufficiently transparent. not least, it turns the spotlight on the regulation on the administrative procedure of the union’s own administration.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report essentially calls for the transfer of the application of eu law from the member states to the commission in the form of direct regulations. on the contrary, i am in favour of member states having maximum control over the legislation applicable in their territory.
in writing. the annual report shows a decrease in the number of formal infringement procedures over the last five years, which the commission considers to have been the result of an effective structured dialogue with the member states under the eu pilot project. this is certainly true, but with the caveat that the decline in recent years and the decline expected in the coming years is also due to the steady decline in the number of new commission legislative proposals. the second group of meps responds by increasing the number of own-initiative reports which are non-legislative in nature. unfortunately, they are often too broad, not up to the task, containing inconsistent or unrealistic positions and, in my view, reducing the ep's credibility. the commission may also be objected to for not implementing eu pilot procedures in cases where the directives have been transposed into national law after the agreed deadlines. the commission should also focus more on improving these cases in the future.
in writing. the 2014 annual report on the monitoring of the application of union law presented by the commission indicates that the highest number of cases concerning infringements of the treaty were opened repeatedly in the areas of environment, transport and internal market policies and services, including consumer protection. a fair internal market, including consumer protection policy, cannot be built without the timely and correct transposition of eu legislation into national law, a clear legal framework and enforcement. the commission's report highlights that the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased over the last five years, and that this decrease is the result of effective dialogue with member states under the eu pilot. however, the juri report notes that the enforcement of eu law is not yet sufficiently transparent and asks whether the declared reduction actually corresponds to better compliance by member states with eu law. i therefore support the idea that a procedure be set up within parliament's competent committees to monitor the application of eu law in the member states, which would be able to analyse the issue of non-compliance in a factual manner, but also to pass on this knowledge to national parliaments. in this respect, i welcome the call for the commission to share information also in the context of the informal eu pilot procedure.
in writing. ‒ european union law is a system of rules operating within the member states of the european union. eu law, which has equal force with national law, confers rights and obligations on the authorities in each member country, as well as individuals and businesses. the commission’s 32nd annual report on monitoring the application of eu law contains interesting information on the implementation and practical application of eu law. the report on the application of union law, a pilot procedure aimed at increasing effectiveness in the application of union law, expresses doubt that the enforcement of eu law is sufficiently transparent. i voted in favour of the proposed amendments, which would see the european parliament play a more structured role in the analysis of how both countries in the eu and accession countries comply with eu law and aid in developing appropriate support in this respect for those countries.
in writing. i support this 32nd annual report of the commission on monitoring the application of eu law. the report contains, in my view, a lot of interesting and stimulating information on the current state of compliance with european legislation. for example, it is noted that the environment, transport and the internal market and services remained the sectors where the highest number of infringement cases were opened in 2014. on the other hand, it is interesting to observe that the total number of formal infringements of the treaty has been steadily decreasing over the last five years. nevertheless, i stress that the commission must continue to play an active role in monitoring compliance with the law and develop tools to help better implement european legislation at national level. the role of parliament should instead be primarily political oversight of the commission's enforcement activities. i therefore personally find the proposals on administrative procedure put forward by the working party set up by the committee on legal affairs particularly useful in the report, as i believe they can be an inspiration for the commission in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to the commission's decision to authorise the distribution of genetically modified maize seed. i respect the right of the states to ban this seed on their territory if they wish, as about half of the eu states have done, but it is not right to restrict by a denial of permission those states that do not mind this seed. i therefore support the commission's decision.
in writing. ‒ the objection proposed by the environment, public health and food safety committee against the commission’s proposal for placing genetically modified maize bt11 seeds on the european market is part of a larger theme of systematically opposing gm authorisations on mainly procedural grounds and is not the right way to force the commission to change the eu-level authorisation regime. i voted against the motion to object the proposal, as i believe that as long as there are no convincing scientific reasons to object to a gm authorisation, i will continue to follow the advice given by the european food and safety authority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to the commission's decision to authorise the distribution of genetically modified maize seed. i respect the right of the states to ban this seed on their territory if they wish, as about half of the eu states have done, but it is not right to restrict by a denial of permission those states that do not mind this seed. i therefore support the commission's decision.
in writing. ‒ the objection proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety against the commission´s proposal to place genetically modified maize 1507 seeds on the european market is part of a larger theme of systematically opposing gm authorisations on mainly procedural grounds and is not the right way to force the commission to change the eu level authorisation regime. i voted against the motion to object to the proposal, as i believe that as long as there are no convincing scientific reasons to object to a gm authorisation, i will continue to follow the advice given by the european food and safety agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to the commission's decision to authorise the distribution of genetically modified maize seed. i respect the right of the states to ban this seed on their territory if they wish, as about half of the eu states have done, but it is not right to restrict by a denial of permission those states that do not mind this seed. i therefore support the commission's decision.
in writing. ‒ the objection proposed by the environment, public health and food safety committee against the renewing of authorisation for the use of genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds in the european market is part of a larger theme of systematically opposing gm authorisations on mainly procedural grounds, and is not the right way to force the commission to change the eu-level authorisation regime. i voted against the motion to object the proposal, as i believe that as long as there are no convincing scientific reasons to object to a gm authorisation, i will continue to follow the advice given by the european food and safety agency.
in writing. ‒ the objection proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety against the renewing of authorisation for the use of genetically modified maize mon 810 products in the european market is part of a larger theme of systematically opposing gm authorisations on mainly procedural grounds and is not the right way to force the commission to change the eu-level authorisation regime. i voted against the motion to object to the proposal as i believe that as long as there are no convincing scientific reasons to object to a gm authorisation, i will continue to follow the advice given by the european food and safety agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to the commission's decision to authorise the distribution of products containing genetically modified cotton. i respect the right of individual member states to prohibit such products on their territory, if necessary, but i do not consider it right to prohibit restrictions on those member states which do not object to such products. i therefore support the commission's decision.
in writing. ‒ the objection proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety against the proposal to place on the market genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 x 3006-210-23 x mon 88913 is part of a larger theme of systematically opposing gm authorisations on mainly procedural grounds and is not the right way to force the commission to change the eu level authorisation regime. i voted against the motion to object the proposal, as i believe that as long as there are no convincing scientific reasons to object to a gm authorisation, i will continue to follow the advice given by the european food and safety agency.
ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will be voting together on the eu strategy for iran after the nuclear deal. in paragraph 12, we are talking about the iranian people. we call on the eu to develop economic cooperation with iran in order to improve the living conditions of its citizens. i would like to appeal to the iranian people to think in other ways first. the restoration of relations must be an opportunity and a benefit not only for the iranian government and business, but also and above all for political prisoners. for ordinary people whose relatives have been unjustly executed in recent years. for the loved ones of those who are unjustly condemned to a similar punishment now. i'm afraid if our partner is a country with the highest per capita execution rate in the world, it pays to be very careful. and now, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak english. i want to commemorate 30,000 political prisoners in iran who were murdered between august and october 1988. this is a crime against humanity that has remained unpunished. those who committed those crimes are still at the top of the regime. therefore, colleagues, please support the amendments to this report.
mr president, in the flood of current news we should not forget the long-term challenges, which is why i would like to remind you that in two days' time, on 27 october, is the day that unesco is devoting to audiovisual cultural heritage. this legacy has enormous value for us, both artistically in the case of films and historically in the case of records of events in the 20th century. however, these materials are perishable and their preservation, archiving and high-quality digitisation should be an important priority for us. we should not forget to protect them. we are currently discussing in the european parliament a revision of the audiovisual services directive, which also deals with the promotion of european works. we want to increase the representation of european production for on-demand audiovisual service providers, not just for radio and television. and that's from 10 to 20 percent. we believe it is our duty to set the rules in such a way as to encourage and motivate creators in europe to produce quality audiovisual works that will be traditional continuators of europe's rich cultural heritage.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights are the fundamental values of our union. it is these shared values that hold our union together. these are the values to which we have voluntarily subscribed in the founding treaties. it is therefore necessary that we not only declare our common values, but also act on them. the legitimacy of the european union will certainly not benefit if we question the existence of its fundamental values and if it becomes clear that the instruments to promote these values are not available. it is not a matter of imposing values, so to speak, from brussels, but of implementing values as defined in the treaties. however, i would like to express some doubts, particularly with regard to the part of the report which contains recommendations for possible future amendments to the treaties. i think we are going too far here and some of these recommendations are, in my view, too radical at the moment and therefore counterproductive. i believe that we must slow down and really first thoroughly evaluate the possibilities of existing, perhaps interlinked, mechanisms.
mr president, the fight against terrorism and organised crime cannot be tackled at the level of the member states alone, and citizens therefore rightly expect the european union to ensure their security from within its powers. in the last two years, we have adopted two regulations that allow for the collection of passenger data, the collection of information on money transfers that could be used to finance terrorism. at europol, the amount of data shared is multiplied and the european counter-terrorism centre is created. we are aware of the need to prevent, combat radicalisation and also the need to not tolerate manifestations of radical islam, to monitor content on the internet, and therefore we also want to prevent its dissemination through audiovisual services. ladies and gentlemen, the list of these activities that we are undertaking at european union level is not exhaustive, it is not sufficient, but it is a clear signal that the safety of citizens is our priority.
measures taken to improve internal security in the eu are not well regarded by the public. the agenda items: information on the movement of foreign terrorist fighters, prevention of and counter radicalisation, sanctions against terrorists, better information sharing and others are fine, but the public is negatively aware of the absurdity of another of the attempts to criminalise the possession of firearms. this proposal has raised many legitimate doubts about its meaning and purpose among sports shooters, thinkers, and other professional groups. the protection of citizens and critical infrastructure has been translated into investment measures for the entrance to certain public buildings. in france, they're accompanied by a state of emergency. in belgium, soldiers with automatic weapons are seen in a number of public places. authorities are still trying to interfere with internet freedom and deepen surveillance of their own citizens. i believe that the public welcomes the efforts to strengthen the fight against terrorist financing and any sign of strengthening the protection of the eu's external borders. cooperation on counter-terrorism measures is desirable not only with the mediterranean countries. without really effective action, the internal security of eu countries will not improve. the commissioner for migration, home affairs and citizenship says the eu is meant to be an area of freedom, security and justice for its citizens without internal borders. unfortunately, the actions of the european court of justice, national courts and the european commission are making the eu a space without external borders. is that what we want?
in writing. this report represents something that is very important for the eu today, the protection of our european values, democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. this is the basis of our community and our confidence in the functioning of the union as a whole. if these values are not respected, we must have effective tools to ensure that they are respected. but this must in no way be at the expense of the sovereignty of the member states, of their political situation, of their willingness to participate in the project of the european union. that is why the question of subsidiarity and the sovereignty of the member states is crucial to me in this report. they are the ones who are the first guarantors of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in their country. the eu must play a partner and helper role in this matter, not a controller telling the member states what to do and how to do it. that would be undemocratic in itself.
mr president, i am a little ashamed of the european parliament. i don't know if any of you read the texts you voted for, but you rejected things like the rejection of executions for juveniles in iran, more free elections, or economic interests and human rights issues being brought together. ladies and gentlemen, my grandfather was in a concentration camp, and i am ashamed to vote against these amendments and i propose that this motion be rejected.
in writing. ‒ launching of automated data exchange with regard to dna in denmark will contribute to more effective monitoring of movements within the european union. it will authorise the state to receive and supply personal data and thus to help to prevent cross-border crime. with respect to current migration crisis and combating terrorism, i voted in favour of stepping up strengthening of eu’s cross-border cooperation and achieving better control over european union’s territory.
in writing. ‒ i have stayed because i want to leave it to denmark to decide how it will provide and receive dna data from other states, or keep this data in connection with criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ the draft council implementing decision aims to authorise denmark to receive and supply personal data for the purposes of automated searching and comparison of dna data under the prüm treaty. i am happy to announce that denmark has run a successful pilot project and fulfilled all the data protection provisions, commission has evaluated the results and found denmark ready to take part in prüm. with the successful pilot and no controversial issues within parliament, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ eu automated data exchange relating to dna is used to step-up cross border cooperation, particularly in the combat against terrorism and cross-border crime. i voted in favour of the automated data exchange with regard to dna in denmark because it will allow for the searching and comparison of dna data, authorising denmark to receive and supply personal data from other eu participants. this effort will render europe better equipped to tackle trans-border crime and terrorism and with better cooperation, will render europe safer and more competent.
in writing. the introduction of automated data exchange in denmark authorises the state to obtain and use personal data, in this case of a dactyloscopic nature. in view of the current migration crisis and also following the increase in terrorist activity, there is a need to improve cross-border cooperation between the member states of the european union and to improve the quality of the exchange of information between them. i supported this council proposal because the enhanced ability to obtain and use personal data will help denmark to control its territory more effectively, namely in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have stayed because i want to leave it to denmark to decide whether to provide fingerprint data to and receive fingerprint data from other states or to store this data in connection with criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ the draft council implementing decision aims to authorise denmark to receive and supply personal data for the purposes of automated searching of dactyloscopic, otherwise known as fingerprint, data under the prüm treaty. i am again happy to announce that denmark has run a successful pilot project and fulfilled all the data protection provisions, and the commission has evaluated the results and found denmark ready to take part in prüm. so, with the successful pilot and no controversial issues within parliament, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ in the aim of stepping-up cross border cooperation, particularly in the combat against terrorism and cross-border crime, the automated exchange of data, particularly regarding dactyloscopic data is essential. i voted in favour of the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data, or fingerprints in denmark because it will allow for the searching and comparison of fingerprint data among participating states, authorising denmark to receive and supply personal data from other eu participants. this effort will render europe better equipped to tackle trans-border crime and terrorism.
in writing. citizens of the people's republic of china need a visa to enter the schengen area, just as citizens of the european union are required to obtain a visa to stay in china. in the context of the negotiations between the european union and china on cooperation on migration and mobility, both sides are committed to future cooperation and agree that the abolition of short-stay visas for diplomats is in the common interest of both countries. the council decision proposes to lift the visa-free regime for 90 days in any 180-day period for holders of diplomatic passports. i voted in favour of the recommendation to abolish this visa because it represents a simplification of the administration of diplomatic relations between the people's republic of china and the european union.
in writing. - i voted yes. this agreement allows eu diplomatic passport holders to visit china without a visa for up to 90 days and chinese diplomatic passport holders to visit the eu schengen area without a visa. if such an agreement proves successful, visa-free travel could be extended to other citizens, making it easier for people to travel between the eu and china for tourism and trade.
in writing. ‒ china still belongs among those countries whose nationals are required to hold a visa when travelling to the schengen area, while eu citizens also need a visa to enter china. i must stress as a social democrat that the significance of visa liberalisation is considerable, as it brings tangible benefits. the october 2013 mobility dialogue has resulted in the council adopting a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations and address negotiating plans for a short-stay visa waiver agreement for holders of diplomatic passports. the council decision now requires the consent of the european parliament. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or an eu laissez-passer and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the abolishment of visas will facilitate people-to-people contact, which is an essential condition for the steady development of economic, cultural, scientific and other ties as well. however, i would like to point out on this occasion that visa liberalisation should go hand-in-hand with needed improvements in respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. i have today supported the european parliament's consent to the draft council decision on the conclusion of the eu-china agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. this consent shall be given after the member states have given their consent to the draft of this agreement. such approval shall be preceded by an assessment by the member states of all the risks associated with the introduction of a visa-free regime for the holders of a particular type of travel document, including an assessment of the quality of the security of the travel documents of the other party against counterfeiting. i believe that the conclusion of a visa-free regime for holders of diplomatic passports is a standard step in international relations and can therefore also be negotiated with china. moreover, in a situation where the agreement is reciprocal, any termination by china can only be made against all eu member states at once.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the eu-china mobility and migration dialogue (2013), the eu and china cooperation package included a reciprocal visa waiver agreement for holders of diplomatic passports. the agreement is to provide visa-free travel for citizens of the eu holding diplomatic passports, as well as a eu laissez-passer for citizens of china holding a diplomatic passport. i voted in favour of the agreement because of i recognise the importance of the project to support the bilateral dialogue and the strong momentum to advance eu-china cooperation on migration and mobility issues.
in writing. i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the eu regulation on the review of the increased advance payments on dividends from the european structural and investment funds. the report focuses on the financial management of some eu member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with financial stability. i welcomed this proposal because it offers a budget-neutral solution to the temporary liquidity problems of these countries.
in writing. - i voted against it. the proposal increases the structural funds' grants to eu countries that have run into problems of over-indebtedness and are borrowing from the eu (such as greece). the share of eu funds contributing to the financing of projects is increased by 10%. in my view, if co-financing of eu programmes is driving countries into debt, then the share of payments from eu funds should be increased and the share of co-financing from national resources should be reduced for all countries, not just greece. i don't support proposals that benefit certain people at the expense of the czech taxpayer.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation relating to financial management for certain member states experiencing, or threatened with, serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability aims to increase co-financing by the european structural and investment funds to 95% for greece and to 85% for cyprus. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that the eu’s initiative to support regional development in member states experiencing, or threatened with, serious financial difficulties, such as greece and cyprus, is a vital aspect of what the eu stands for in terms of integration and cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of jean-marie le pen. mr le pen suggested in an internet video, published on his own website and on youtube, ‘putting them all in the oven together next time’ when asked about the jewish french singer patrick bruel. as there was no link between his public statements and his parliamentary activities, i believe that his immunity should be waived. furthermore, the incitement to racial hatred was not covered by the freedom of expression clause.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to refuse the defence of the privileges and immunities of jane collins. ms collins accused labour party members of knowing about systematic sexual abuse of minors taking place in their community without taking appropriate steps to remedy it. her statements were made at the ukip party conference and aired live on the bbc. as a result, ms collins is being sued for aggravated damages for alleged libel and slander. because the statements were made outside the premises of the european parliament and do not relate to her activity as an mep or to eu policies, i do not believe that she should be covered by such privileges and immunities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to refuse the defence of the privileges and immunities of mario borghezio. mr borghezio is facing criminal proceedings pending before the court of milan, as, during a radio programme, he allegedly advocated ideas founded on superiority and racial or ethnic hatred, and that is punishable under italian law. the statements made by mr borghezio exceeded the tone generally tolerated in political debate and were profoundly un-parliamentary in nature and contrary to article 21 of the eu charter of fundamental rights. they cannot, therefore, have been made in the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal because i am of the view that statistics on rail transport should be open to eu citizens. improving the accessibility of data on goods, passengers and accidents will not only provide all categories of users of rail transport with trustworthy information, which will enable them to observe the progress of european policies in the rail sector, but also allow stakeholders to better evaluate developments in the sector and react accordingly. for instance, statistics can bring useful evidence-based information to survey rail safety.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement reached with the council and the commission. the text aims to update the current legislative framework and facilitates the collection of data on rail transport, all of which is necessary for better planning and law-making in the transport sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation because i think that it is important to create statistical standards for high-quality data collection to enhance the role of inland navigation within the transport sector and to help to foster eu’s inland waterway transport. this regulation ensures that high-quality data based on reliable statistics on inland navigation will be available to support eu efforts to create conditions for its optimal development.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement reached with the council and the commission. the updated regulation aims to align current legislation with the most recent developments and so enables the commission to take the necessary measures to ease the data collection process in the inland waterway sector, for instance by adapting existing definitions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the legal framework of the union for the detection of customs infringements and the imposition of penalties, as i believe that the single market and the customs union, one of the foundations of the european community, need to be further strengthened. an integrated approach to the enforcement of customs legislation and sanctions is needed to further harmonise the administrative and legal practices of the member states of the european union.
in writing. - i voted against it. the proposal strengthens the customs regime and importers will face higher penalties in the event of omissions and incorrect completion or submission of forms and handling of goods. i'm all for free trade, not higher penalties for importing goods.
in writing. i supported the report presenting the agreement of the ep and the council at second reading. under the pressure of the ep, the element of objective responsibility, which does not require a degree of culpability, has been removed. however, the directive should provide a framework to ensure that member states have a uniform perception of mitigating and aggravating circumstances, from voluntary reporting to non-cooperation. the provisions on strict liability are contrary to that approach and, moreover, call into question certain fundamental principles of law, such as the presumption of innocence, since they do not require an element of culpability for which a sanction is imposed. it is essential that the directive approximates non-criminal sanctions, while leaving the adjustment of criminal sanctions to the member states.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for the union legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions aims to establish a framework for breaches of the union’s customs legislation and provide for penalties applicable where there are infringements. although customs legislation is fully harmonised, its enforcement and the lawful imposition of sanctions lie within the competence of member states' national law, rendering the effective management of the customs union much more difficult to harmonise. for economic operators, the differences in the treatment of infringements of union customs legislation have an impact on the level playing field, thus providing an advantage for those who breach the law in a member state with more lenient legislation for customs sanctions. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that in a true single market, we cannot let companies face different treatments depending on the country where they will be sanctioned. in the single eu market, the law should be the same for everyone.
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal, which aims to harmonise the approach of member states to the enforcement of customs rules and sanctions. since the european union has a single customs union, i believe that there should also be a single customs sanction, which is the same for all eu members. i believe that this proposal will lead to a more comprehensible and transparent environment, especially for smes, which form the backbone of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ in view of recent terror attacks, i believe it is crucial that european union’s institutions review their security need and identify the urgency for additional resources already in 2016. the budget for security must be reinforced with regard to new activities connected to tackling terrorism threat, like for example the demand of the recruitment of additional security agents. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. on 25 october 2016, at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, we voted on draft amending budget no 3/2016: security of the eu institutions. this is a step which increases the resources in the budget chapter of the eu budget devoted to security measures in the eu institutions. the need to strengthen security in the eu institutions came mainly after media reports began to emerge that some of the alleged perpetrators of the paris and brussels terrorist attacks had previously worked in the eu institutions as employees of external companies and service providers. subsequently, the competent authorities were asked to propose the internalisation of certain outsourced services so that they would never again be performed by unverified persons in these institutions. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of office equipment, the purchase, hire or leasing of office equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of office equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of office equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of office equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of office equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of office equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of office equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of office equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of office equipment and installations, and the purchase of office equipment and installations. since i support this sensible reduction in security risks, but do not support any further increase in the budget and am of the opinion that the current budget must be cleared of unnecessary agendas in favour of those that are necessary, such as security, i was unfortunately obliged to abstain in the final vote.
in writing. - i voted against it. the proposal increases the expenditure of the european parliament, the commission and other eu institutions on new cameras and security frames by eur 16 million and proposes to hire an additional 35 armed ep staff without the eu having to reduce its staff in other areas by 35 people. the increased expenditure is at the expense of the member states, which is why i voted against.
mr president, i too join the small group of members of my group who voted against this report. i think, of course, that it is the duty of diplomacy to negotiate, to resolve differences and to reach certain agreements, compromises. however, i am not sure that this agreement really offers any real trade-offs and real benefits for the european union and the world in general. maybe she was a little premature. the blasphemy is portrayed in the west as representing the liberal current in iran, but when you look at the real numbers, he's actually, in terms of execution numbers, worse than the dreaded president ahmadinejad. i am fully convinced that this agreement that was made was premature and i think that the report was unilaterally aimed at supporting this agreement and did not objectively assess all the facts.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i did not find it enough balanced. yes, there is a progress in our relation with iran, there is a deal reached in the area of nuclear, but this does not mean we should be blind to the fact that human rights are not fully respected in this country. the eu should remain critical on these issues and not to pretend the problems do not exist. they did not disappear after the nuclear agreement was reached.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu's post-nuclear iran strategy. iran is the second largest economy in the middle east and the development of good eu-iran relations is crucial for the stability of the region. this dialogue opens up the space for debates on democratic governance, human rights and a common vision of possible future cooperation. in general, it opens up a space for communication on many levels with countries that have been isolated until now, and i see that as a good step. moreover, iran can be a key partner in resolving the conflicts in syria and yemen, and it is good to develop relations with iran.
- i voted against. the report calls on the eu and its member states to explore the use of export credit guarantees to encourage trade, project financing and investment in iran. i'm against state guarantees for private investment abroad. this type of guarantee motivates companies to take risks at the expense of the taxpayer. the report calls on the commission to increase the amount of money spent on the participation of iranian students in the erasmus programme. i see no reason why the european taxpayer should subsidize the travel of iranian students to schools in the eu.
in writing. i abstained on the eu's post-nuclear iran strategy because the motions pointing to human rights abuses in iran failed to pass. these include expressing utmost concern at the high number of juvenile executions, recalling iran's obligations under the un convention on the rights of the child, which prohibits the use of the death penalty against juvenile offenders, and demanding that all juvenile offenders currently awaiting execution receive commuted sentences. i consider it very unfortunate and unjustifiable that parliament has not supported these proposals.
in writing. the conclusion of the agreement on iran's nuclear programme, followed by the partial lifting of sanctions, and the relative positive internal developments in iran have opened the door to improved eu-iran relations. the strategy adopted represents a further step towards the establishment of an ambitious eu-iran bilateral programme. i believe that only by developing mutual trust will it be possible to overcome the antagonisms that have prevailed so far. this strategy should lead to finding a way to break iran's isolationism. in particular, the development of a parliamentary dimension and mutual cooperation in a number of areas, including trade relations, the fight against terrorism, sectoral cooperation and, not least, regional security, are important means of achieving this objective. it is on this theme that it is necessary to mention our key role in promoting stability in the region and to assure our other long-term partners in the region of our continued support. the willingness of iran to engage in a political dialogue with the eu on human rights is one of the key elements, especially given that the country is still among those that use the death penalty in certain cases. the joint strategy should provide sufficient expertise to iran in the future to reform its judicial system. this could help to identify alternative forms of punishment, in particular for less serious offences or offences committed by juveniles.
in writing. ‒ following the iran nuclear deal and the internal political developments in iran, there is now an opportunity for reforms in the country and for improvement of its relations with the european union. however, i am of the opinion that overall the compromises in the agreement do not reflect the present reality in iran. there is a clear lack of balance in tone and substance when it comes to serious problems such as human rights violations, corruption, and the role of iran in regional conflicts, in particular concerning its support for the assad regime. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i have decided not to support the eu strategy on iran. the european union should, in my view, take a more cautious stance towards iran, particularly on the issue of respect for human rights. the strategy proposed, however, lacks the deeper references to human rights and the resulting form is, in my view, even slightly accommodating to iran, which i do not consider to be very fortunate. i am referring in particular to the expression of support for iran's accession to the world trade organisation.
mr president, i supported this report, although i consider the fight against corruption to be a political fetish. i think that humanity has been fighting corruption for so long that this is one of the longest battles that we've ever fought, and the results are pretty contradictory, but it's just on the edge. i also join those who support enhanced cooperation between member states. of course, in the fight against corruption, we should see above all the possibility of making decision-making processes as transparent as possible, opening them up. and also how to have predictable rules, because if the principle of legal certainty applies, then of course it's going to be hard to bribe if you know how a particular decision process is going to turn out. i join my colleague pospisil in saying that i too have long-standing reservations about the unification of criminal law in the substantive field, since only the unification of direct taxes would remain, and that is only a step towards federation and also towards the european public prosecutor's office.
‒ organized crime is a global threat and therefore requires an adequate coordinated response by the european union and its member states. corruption and money laundering in the eu and globally are on the rise, with a clear impact on the security of eu citizens and businesses in europe. i supported the resolution on the fight against corruption because it is necessary to prevent tax evasion and i am convinced that the measures proposed therein will lead to the elimination of organised crime, which is corruption and money laundering.
in writing. i abstained in the vote on the report on the fight against corruption and further steps following the crim resolution. the reason for this was amendments nos 51 to 54 on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, which unfortunately passed during the vote. like the czech republic, i have long disagreed with the concept presented of how the office should be set up, and the czech republic even issued a so-called yellow card to this proposal within the framework of the early warning system of the member states. however, as a whole, i consider the anti-corruption report submitted to be quite solid, but in the context of the above, it was impossible for me to support the report completely.
in writing. - i voted against it. i consider the resolution to be legally dilettante and contrary to the principles of the rule of law. the resolution calls on the member states to adopt specific legislation and appropriate measures to prevent and combat the activities of professionals, banking institutions, officials and politicians at all levels who, although not members of criminal organisations, support them at various levels. in this respect, calls for criminal sanctions to be imposed on managers and banks involved in cases where there is evidence of large-scale money laundering. criminal sanctions are to be imposed by the court on the basis of law and not on the basis of an ad hoc resolution of the european parliament. a manager or a banker, like anyone else, should be convicted if they have committed a crime, not on the basis of a vague ruling of involvement in cases.
in writing. i supported the report on the fight against corruption, and i consider particularly important the part of it which points out that corruption facilitates the penetration of organised crime into the legal economy, in particular through public procurement and public-private partnerships. i therefore agree that a comprehensive e-procurement system should be implemented across the eu to reduce the risk of corruption in public procurement. member states and european institutions should establish a 'blacklist' of companies found to have links to organised crime or to engage in corrupt practices, these companies should be excluded from all business relations with public administrations and from the possibility of using eu funds, and there should be an automatic exchange of relevant information at european level.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that this report recaps the parliament report adopted in the last legislature on organised crime, corruption and money laundering (the ‘crim’ report) by taking a fresh look at the recommendations set out in the crim report, and seeks to draw conclusions on the recommendations which were followed up and those which were not. it was drafted in anticipation of the commission’s 2nd anti-corruption report and is split into eight sections which deal with a specific aspect of combating corruption and organised crime and calling for specific actions or responses. the sections include also the importance of the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) which has been strongly promoted by our group. i would also like to stress the importance of calling for a specific instrument to tackle ‘mafia-style’ criminal organisations and compromised on the legal basis for establishing an eppo.
in writing. ‒ in autumn 2013, the temporary committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering (crim) adopted a final report that made a number of recommendations on actions and initiatives to be taken by the european parliament. the crim committee report identified 21 concrete measures to fight organised crime and corruption, which need to be implemented in the period of 2014-2019. i voted in favour of the crim report, which will strive to improve available legal tools in the fight against corruption and organised crime. i believe that in forging a stronger link between organised crime and corruption, and law enforcement and prevention, as well as enhancing existing laws and rule, the eu can combat the dangers of the former. organised crime is a global threat, which therefore necessitates a common, coordinated response by the eu and its member states
in writing. ‒ i support this report because i believe it is the right step to take in the effective fight against corruption. money laundering and organised crime are undoubtedly issues that transcend national boundaries and therefore need to be debated at pan-european level. i consider it necessary and desirable that member states cooperate and share both a common strategy and the tools to fight corruption, as proposed in this report.
in writing. ‒ there is a lot of good things raised in this report, however i could not support it as a whole. the reason is very simple, i keep saying it over and over again. the migration problem cannot be solved by imposing quotas, it has to be tackled in a much more comprehensive manner. i see some positive movements in this direction on the eu level, however they were not fully reflected in the present report.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on migration in third countries, outside the eu. i welcome the focus on these issues as well as the report's emphasis on the interrogation of immigrants and the provision of basic care. i do not, however, entirely agree with the recommendation that migrants be included in all social and political decision-making processes. the process of integrating different cultures and environments is a difficult and long one, and the immediate involvement of migrants in the decision-making processes of the destination country is not a happy one. in the long term, i also do not support the various forms of compulsory redistribution mechanisms that this report calls for. for these reasons, i voted against the report.
in writing. i voted against it. the resolution 'calls on all states to recognise their obligations in the field of asylum and migration arising from international law and to adopt the national legislation necessary for the effective implementation of these obligations'. i see this as eu pressure on member states to comply with migration quotas. the resolution calls for support for the launch of specific social and legal protection mechanisms for lgbti migrants and asylum seekers. i see no reason why gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and intersex migrants should have specific social and legal protection mechanisms in the eu. i don't see why someone should be granted preferential asylum just because they say they're bisexual. i also disagree with the challenge to the eu to define the term 'climate refugee' and automatically give asylum to someone just because it's hot in their country.
in writing. i did not support the report on human rights and migration in third countries because i think that a number of the proposals that the ep supported went too far. the report calls, among other things, for too broad protection and support for migration, including illegal migration. for example, the emphasis on the need to recognise the right of all migrants, including illegal migrants, to form and join workers' rights organisations, such as trade unions.
‒ migration is a global and highly complex problem with diverse origins, arising for example from adverse economic conditions, but also from a violent and conflict-ridden environment. the unhcr report estimates that more than 65 million people have been forced to flee their country of origin because of instability or a humanitarian crisis caused by internal conflict. i realize that there is no simple solution to this problem. on the contrary, measures must be taken that are effective in the long term. the adopted report seeks to address an important aspect of the migration crisis concerning respect for the dignity and human rights of refugees and calls on member states to abolish criminal law regimes that criminalise migration. it also places great emphasis on the need to assess each application individually and to identify and subsequently grant international protection to migrants. the rights of refugees should also be ensured by improving their quality of life, in particular through their access to healthcare, education and employment. in this regard, attention must be paid in particular to the most vulnerable, namely women and children, whose numbers among migrants and refugees are constantly increasing. while i fully agree with all the above requirements, i cannot support a text that again refers to the mandatory distribution mechanism and weakens the return policy in my view. that is why i abstained.
in writing. i did not support the resolution on rights and migration in third countries in the final vote. the european parliament's initiative, which expresses concern at the serious human rights violations faced by many migrants in transit or destination countries, could be a useful appeal if it did not contain proposals that violate the principle of subsidiarity. i agree that the dignity and human rights of every human being, including migrants and refugees, must be respected and that illegal migration and trafficking in human beings must be prevented by all means possible. however, i regret to say that the report, whose main purpose should be the one mentioned above, contains a number of unnecessary recommendations with which i cannot agree. the report, for example, pays special attention to specific groups such as lgbti, seeks to mainstream gender issues into migration policies, or calls for the establishment of permanent and mandatory resettlement programmes. moreover, the report often uses and confuses the two different terms 'migrant' and 'refugee' in an inappropriate way, which can be confusing in its overall context. the passage which talks about the social and economic rights of migrants can also be read as calling for the payment of social benefits to all migrants, which is unacceptable. the text is also reflected in the fact that the resolution was adopted by a very narrow majority of 339 votes to 333.
in writing. i did not support the adoption of the report on human rights and migration in third countries, because, while i agree with some parts of the report that migration is a complex problem, i no longer agree with many of the other starting points and proposals for solutions mentioned. i believe that in the current migration crisis, which is currently affecting the mediterranean region in particular, it is particularly important to distinguish between migration in the broadest sense and the movement of people, many of whom are subsequently granted international protection, either in the form of asylum or subsidiary protection. the geneva convention should be applied. but i think that, for example, to quote the part of the universal declaration of human rights that says that 'everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country' should be interpreted in the light of, for example, our experience with restrictions on freedom of movement in socialist czechoslovakia, not as the right of anyone to move anywhere regardless of, for example, visa requirements, length of stay, etc. such interpretations do not contribute to the exercise of the right of asylum by those who are entitled to it.
in writing. ‒ migration is a global, multidimensional phenomenon caused by a wide variety of factors, such as economic conditions, social and political conditions, labour conditions, violence, security, and environment. if the eu and its member states must lead by example in protecting the human rights of asylum seekers, economic migrants must be return to their country when their security is guaranteed. however, in this report, all the dimensions and the complexity of the migration issues are not covered and i believe that this report does not reflect the reality. if i believe that the eu, in keeping with its own value and norms, has the obligation to play a strong role in the protection of human rights, the migration phenomenon must be addressed in a coherent, balanced manner, based on a comprehensive approach, which is here not the case and this is the reason why i voted against this report.
in writing. - i've decided not to support this report. i would like to point out that the report does not deal with eu migration policy as such, but with migration policy in third countries. that in itself wouldn't be a problem. however, the report contains a number of measures and procedures which are not feasible and therefore have no de facto benefit. at the same time, the report goes too deeply into the human rights and migration issues and does not, in my view, reflect the way in which the dialogue between the european union and third countries should be conducted.
in writing. ‒ corporations, as major players in economic globalisation, financial services and international trade, have a moral duty and a legal obligation to respect human rights. clauses on corporate liability for human rights violations should be included in eu trade and investment agreements. this is part of eu action to ensure effective protection of human rights also in the context of business activity. an independent body should verify and certify that no abuse has occurred at any stage of the production chain and consequently certify the product by so called ‘abuse-free’ label, an important one for the reputation of our companies. i see this report as a positive step towards a new way of approaching the exploitation of resources all over the world, especially in developing countries.
in writing. in the vote on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries, i voted in favour. the issue of respect for human rights has been a long-standing issue that i have been trying to promote, and this report is no exception. i also have a long-term interest in the responsibility of multinational corporations and the problems that this causes in third countries. human rights abuses by multinational companies are very common and legislation to curb such behaviour is very welcome even among most of my colleagues. first and foremost, we must ensure that human rights violations do not occur within the territory of the eu countries, but we must not forget the global reach of multinational corporations and continue our efforts to develop this issue constantly.
- i voted against. the resolution calls on the eu and the member states to set clear rules that companies established in their territories or falling within their jurisdiction must respect human rights in all countries and in all contexts in which they operate. eu member states cannot be held responsible for something they have no chance of finding out or influencing. the countries where companies operate, not the countries where they come from, must be responsible for the laws and human rights. the resolution also 'calls on the commission to submit a legislative proposal to control exported dual-use goods without delay, as technologies produced by european companies still cause human rights violations around the world'. i don't agree with this kind of export restriction. a company that exports, for example, cameras or microphones cannot be held responsible for whether such goods are used by a third country government to violate human rights to privacy. the resolution also strongly calls on the commission to launch an eu-wide campaign to introduce and promote the abuse-free label and to call on european consumers to vote for products and companies that have been awarded this label. i do not agree with the eu doing any campaign promoting information labels on goods with taxpayers' money.
in writing. i supported the report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries, which is based on the finding that some human rights violations are caused by the behaviour of companies. it is therefore appropriate to call on the eu and the member states to establish clear rules that companies established in their territories or falling within their jurisdiction must respect human rights in their activities in all countries and in any context in which they operate and in the context of their business relationships, including those outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ we have to regularly keep corporate actors reminded of their responsibility to respect human rights throughout their global operations, regardless of where their users are located or whether or not the host state meets its own human rights obligations. i, along with my colleagues, have repeatedly pointed out cases of human rights violations committed in third countries, including as a result of some eu corporations’ and business enterprises’ management decisions. i strongly support this report that strongly reiterates all meps’ support for the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights (ungps) and their worldwide implementation and calls for ‘companies, whether european or not, to carry out human rights due diligence’ as well as for the allocation of sufficient resources for this purpose. our group tabled amendments insisting on the responsibility of european enterprises and on the lead by example that european corporates could take by implementing the ungps, and i am pleased that the voting went satisfactorily.
in writing. ‒ the report on corporate liability for serious human rights abuses in third countries deals with several issues related to the responsibility of corporations to comply with the applicable laws and respect human rights, including, inter alia, global responsibility, positive incentives in terms of promoting human rights, liability of eu corporations, extra-territorial dimensions of companies, criminal liability, as well as the creation of a certified ‘abuse-free’ product label at eu level. i voted in favour of the report because the eu’s founding values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, need to be reflected in its action on the international scene, including its trade policy, and should be guided by these principles.
in writing. i decided to support the report with my vote. i think it makes a good contribution to the debate on corporate social responsibility, especially for multinationals, which often have their branches and production plants in third countries. i believe it is essential that human rights are respected everywhere in the world and that binding standards are set for employers that clearly require respect for human rights. it is often the employers who can combat such breaches most effectively and efficiently.
in writing. ‒ this report on a very important topic of energy security presents broad set of measures we need to consider in order to keep the eu regions energetically safe and stable. there is a need to diversify our resources in order to mitigate risks linked to the fact that some member states are fully or largely dependent only on one supplier. this, in future, can turn into a very negative surprise. however, i have abstained at the final vote, as i am missing some parts of the strategy that i find important, such as better use of existing critical energy infrastructure or better links on the north-south basis.
in writing. on 25 october 2016, we voted in plenary on the report on the eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage. the proposal under discussion is another in a series of eu efforts to create a slow-moving energy union. this time, it is aimed at defining a single strategy for lng for all eu member states. i have long been very reluctant to build a single energy union, because i believe that energy, the energy mix and security are matters which are the exclusive responsibility of the individual member states. however, i'm trying to be very open about this issue. the proposal is moving towards a single gas market, which is not necessarily a bad thing. but it also mentions the transatlantic trade partnership, which i strongly disagree with. moreover, like most energy union documents, it omits the fundamental issues of access to and availability of energy, does not consider energy as a public good of a social nature and does not try to combat so-called energy poverty, which is a fundamental error for a commodity such as gas, the price of which is still a socially sensitive issue in many countries. in addition, the proposal takes a very benevolent approach to the issue of gas produced by so-called hydraulic fracturing, which destroys both our waters and biodiversity and the environment in general. for all these reasons, i abstained from voting.
in writing. - i voted against it. lng is a technology that allows the transport of gas that can be used for both transport and electricity generation. this technology is being used and expanded naturally and we don't need an eu strategy for that. i do not agree with the call for the eu and the member states to create 'preventatives' for the distribution of liquefied biogas. biogas as a renewable source must be marketable without subsidies and tax breaks if it is to be competitive, otherwise there is a risk that support for biogas will end, as will support for solar and wind power plants , thus placing a huge burden on consumers and taxpayers.
in writing. - i agree with the authors of the report that the availability of liquefied natural gas, including the supporting pipeline infrastructure, could significantly improve the current security of supply situation, not only in terms of physical but also economic conditions, which would also contribute to more competitive energy prices. this should go hand in hand with ensuring greater diversification and flexibility of the eu gas system. in this context, rather than building new recycling terminals, it would be appropriate to promote the most efficient use of existing lng terminals that can also be used cross-border, in order to avoid the risk of creating barriers to the use of non-fossil technologies.
in writing. ‒ natural gas has great potential within the eu energy system and plays an important role in industrial production. i supported the report on the strategy for liquefied natural gas as it is one of the elements of the proposed energy union. this is a further step towards a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system. in order to achieve this objective, the potential of lng needs to be fully exploited and the union market needs to be made more attractive to suppliers. the key aspect of the report is in particular the recommendations concerning the creation of the necessary infrastructure, but also the emphasis on the use of existing lng terminals. the eu should also focus more on working closely with international partners to promote free and transparent global lng trade. lng also has a high potential to become an alternative fuel to more polluting conventional fuels, both in road and maritime transport. however, although natural gas is a cleaner alternative to other fuels and a flexible back-up for electricity generation, it should not become a full-fledged substitute for renewable sources. this is because it is not completely environmentally friendly and there is a continuing need to minimise transient methane emissions released throughout its life cycle.
in writing. ‒ in february 2016 the commission published a communication on an ‘eu strategy for liquefied natural gas (lng) and gas storage’ as part of its sustainable energy security package. the commission considers that improving the access of eu member states to imports of lng, as well as developing more effective cross-border gas storage, would help to increase security of gas supply, reduce dependence on a single supplier, and allow the eu to take advantage of low global prices for lng. i consider the ep report by andrás gyurk to be a balanced and comprehensive one. i however do not support plenary amendment 2, which calls for complete phasing out of gas in the long term. i consider gas to a be an important part of the eu’s energy mix. moreover, gas can play a big role as a flexibility option complementary to development of res. therefore i decided to abstain in the final vote.
in writing. i fully support the use of lng as an alternative source of gas supply, which contributes to the eu's energy security. unfortunately, the adopted report contains a reference to binding energy and climate targets and other elements indicating a shift away from a balanced report. that's why i couldn't support her.
in writing. i supported the report on the unification of fisheries controls, given the current lack of access to relevant information by national inspectorates. the current frustration of fishermen stems from the belief that fisheries control rules are not applied in the same way in the member states. harmonization will improve the competitive environment in fisheries and modernise the high standards of eu fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i stayed because the czech republic has no sea and i left it to the representatives of other states to decide on the regulation of fishing.
‒ fisheries controls are an important tool for achieving the objectives of the reform of the cfp. despite the fact that fisheries policy is one of the most integrated union policies, there are huge differences between member states, especially in the scope and procedures of controls. in addition, the means and instruments used to carry out individual checks differ, as do the penalties and the legal procedures. the european fisheries control agency has the main responsibility for ensuring that european standards in control and inspection are met and for coordinating action between member states. however, its mandate is currently limited and its powers and funding are insufficient. i therefore highly appreciate the work of my colleague isabelle thomas, the rapporteur of this report, who has attended a series of meetings to document the current situation in each country and then to identify the main obstacles to the unification of fisheries controls. i believe that direct talks with fishermen, representatives of the european fisheries control agency, but also with national and regional inspectors are essential for realistically assessing the situation and subsequently establishing an effective control framework.
in writing. ‒ the eu fisheries control regulation (2010) modernised the eu’s approach to fisheries by creating a common fisheries policy. in particular, it brought the system into line with the strong measures the union had adopted at international level in 2008 to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. however, at the national level, member states and their fisheries control authorities are responsible for the implementation of the policies. the report pointed to several areas for revision, including the necessity to respect the fishery rules, ensuring that all member states are on a level playing field with regard to respecting the rules, the prevention of inequality or mistrust among the member states, the creation of culture of compliance, and the need to improve uniformity. i voted in favour of the report because better implementation, cooperation and, where needed, homogenisation of control standards is a far better option that allowing further derogations from the current fisheries controls in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on improving the connection and accessibility of the transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe because high quality transport links are fundamental for the economic activities in europe and for the quality of life of our citizens. transport networks have to cover the local regional, national and cross-border dimensions, because only a well-connected europe will achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion in and between member states in the eu.
in writing. the report on improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe addressed a very important topic, but it lacked the necessary balance. from the very beginning it seemed that the polish rapporteur wanted to celebrate polish achievements and lobby for polish national needs in this area in the first place. while i am pleased that the report recalls that the development of crossborder roads is essential to facilitate cooperation between people and businesses in border regions, and that it calls on member states to continue to modernise roads, build missing links and safe and accessible parking areas, and to strengthen regional and local connections to the ten-t network, as ten-t networking is an important foundation for the economic growth of regional centres, i would expect much more from a report like this. that's why i abstained during the vote.
in writing. - i voted against it. the development of the road and rail networks is a matter for the member states. i do not agree with the call for 'member states to further promote the digitalisation and automation of all modes of transport' and, in this context, for 'investment infrastructure projects to include transport solutions that reduce the risk of death and serious injury from road traffic accidents'. i take it as a challenge to the state's inadequate control of drivers. the eu should leave this to the individual member states. the use of cameras and digitalisation to monitor drivers may, in my view, lead to more bullying of drivers for minor speeding and to drivers being in constant fear of their own speed over the surroundings and the safety of driving.
in writing. improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe is urgently needed, as transport infrastructure in most regions of central and eastern europe remains underdeveloped compared to transport infrastructure in other european regions. in this context, work on important projects such as via carpatia and rail baltica, as well as the construction of the eastern and eastern mediterranean corridor, the baltic-adriatic corridor and the adriatic-ionian corridor, should be intensified. however, i abstained in a separate vote in favour of the full navigability of the labe, as i have serious doubts about the environmental sustainability and economic viability of such a solution.
in writing. i supported this report on the lack of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe, because this is reflected in our daily lives. well-connected transport networks are a key element in promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion between member states. although much progress has been made in this area, particularly in re-establishing links to and from the western eu countries, many shortcomings still remain in the countries of eastern and central europe. the adopted report covers all modes of transport, but places particular emphasis on multimodal transport. it is crucial to complete major projects relating to road infrastructure, high-speed railways, inland waterways and to improve connections between regional airports. i am pleased that the european parliament is aware of the need to give particular attention to central and eastern europe and i trust that it will take these needs into account in future priorities for funding from the european structural and investment funds.
in writing. i supported the report by mr poręba. the current lack of adequate connectivity of transport infrastructure in the cee region supports the call for member states to focus on closing bottlenecks and missing sections of the ten-t core network to be completed by 2030. the rapporteur also points out in his report the importance of a coordinated approach by member states, which should consult their transport master plans with neighbouring member states. this approach, in my view, can help to link the missing cross-border sections. the completion of the ten-t core network requires sufficient funding and i am therefore pleased that the report calls on the commission to ensure synergies and complementarities between the european funds in this regard, as this is crucial for the member states in our region.
in writing. i voted today for the report on improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe, which stresses the need to improve the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure to, from and within the central and eastern parts of the eu. this report supports the modernisation of roads, the construction of missing links and safe and accessible parking areas, within the ten-t network. the development of transport hubs is a key element for interconnecting long-distance, regional and urban transport and, consequently, for promoting efficiency, intermodality and business development at regional level, also taking into account the extensive possibilities of digitalisation to increase the efficiency of the entire logistics chain. it also stresses that the european structural and investment funds can be used to build missing links in border areas in central and eastern europe, and calls on the central and eastern european member states to ensure a high level of transparency and rigorous control of the spending of eu funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the connection and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. the report points at the specific development of transport infrastructure in the region and underlines, among other things, the need to promote intermodality as well as cross-border connections in the region. in particular, i supported the provisions inviting the member states and the commission to ensure synergies and mutual complementarity of the funding instruments used in the region in order to improve their utilisation.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the level of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe has clearly improved in recent decades, largely thanks to eu funding. however, there is still room for improvement, in particular as regards the modernisation of existing infrastructure, the completion of missing links and other elements of the ten-t network. i consider the development of infrastructure in the cee region to be important not only because of the improvement of the situation at member state level, but also because it is an important factor in strengthening the security and stability of the eu's eastern border.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe there is a case for considering a mechanism through which democracy, rule of law and human rights are monitored. these are a very core value of the eu and should be duly respected, these are the values the eu is known for on international level. the pact should prevent or correct potential breaches of these values and would allow much-needed discussion over it. i also believe there is room for imposing sanctions in case the democratic principles are not respected.
in writing. ‒ during the vote on the report containing the recommendation to the commission to establish an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, i decided to abstain. i am not entirely convinced that the european union needs another expert group paid for with taxpayers' money, and i believe that this mechanism is intended as a sort of whip for states whose policies are not accepted by the eu institutions. i am fully aware that the rule of law is being dismantled in poland, for example, but he thinks it is a sign of political weakness to pay public money to a group that will tell us what we already know, but we will be relieved of political responsibility. moreover, the selection of these experts can become a highly politicized issue, which would rather damage the whole thing.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the call for 'the establishment of a democracy foundation to award grants and support local actors who promote democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights within the union'. i see it as another subsidy to human rights organizations, which often promote their political ideas. the constitutions of the member states are the basic framework for human and civil rights. we're not going to promote democracy and human rights by subsidizing certain entities.
in writing. ‒ i myself have lived through a period of lack of freedom, and therefore i know that democratic values, the rule of law and human rights must be constantly protected and ensured that they are not violated. although the eu has legally established mechanisms to uphold these values, a report by ms int veld on the establishment of an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights was presented to the european parliament. i did not support this report and its proposals for a number of reasons, and i will mention some of them. in cases where there are indications that respect for democratic values may be threatened in a member state, a constructive diplomatic dialogue should be established with that state and existing instruments should be used in accordance with the treaties. this process is also ongoing, see the current situation in poland. we must continually cultivate in the citizens of the union a faith and a commitment to these principles, above all through education and by the exemplary conduct of the european institutions themselves. education, diplomatic dialogue, diplomatic pressure where appropriate, and allowing time for the development of existing contractual instruments to protect these values may be more effective in the end than the creation of new and additional mechanisms. we can consider rationalizing the procedure, which is certainly not flawless, but not in the way that this report proposes.
in writing. ‒ while the eu has a several existing instruments to ensure the principles on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are upheld, substantial gaps remain and in practice certain instruments are often limited in scope, inadequate and ineffective, or they are unlikely to be used. in some cases, their uneven application is perceived by many as politically motivated, arbitrary and unfairly targeting certain countries. further, there is no integrated mechanism for the systematic, impartial and complete monitoring of all eu member states and institutions. the report outlines the establishment of a comprehensive union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the form of an interinstitutional agreement aligning and complementing existing mechanisms. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it is of primary importance to reaffirm the common values on which the european project is based upon and to adopt a mechanism that will guarantee democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights are upheld in practice, not only on paper.
mr. chairman, mr. vice-chairman, thank you for communicating your priorities for the coming term. in particular, the security you want to focus on, i also consider a priority. i very much appreciate the commission's direction to focus on the implementation and implementation of the existing directives. i think that's a very good decision, and that's why i also want to ask you and point out that there is a legislative process for revising the posting of workers directive. unfortunately, it is in the process of implementing the directive which transposes the 1996 directive, and that implementation has not been completed. mr vice-president, i would ask the commission to consider whether it is reasonable to revise a directive whose implementation has not been completed. i think it goes against your intention to focus on implementation, evaluation and then implementing new directives.
in writing. it is the year when, in the same debate on the work programme here, we stressed the need to finally tackle the imbalances in the food supply chain actively and called on the commission to act. the result? the commission has repeatedly supported the idea of self-regulation. in june this year, 600 meps supported the report by mr czesak. it considers that trade practices between actors in the food chain are a serious problem that requires legislative action at european level. we have called on the commission to come forward with a proposal defining common principles to combat these practices. what is the commission's response to this challenge with an unprecedentedly strong mandate? we will continue to monitor the market situation. mr vice-president, the commission's position on this matter is unacceptable to me. it not only ignores the work of the european parliament but also prevents the establishment of a fair competitive environment and transparent relationships between food producers, suppliers and distributors in the internal market.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, it is my pleasure to attend the european parliament’s debate on the draft budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. we have already had the occasion to exchange our views on the draft budget for 2017 on 13 september, when the presidency had the honour to present to you the council’s position on the draft budget proposed by the commission. on that occasion it was underlined that the main thrust of the council’s position was the prioritisation of eu expenditure. this means that we have to finance adequately investments to spur growth and jobs and to provide sufficient funding to tackle the still ongoing refugee, migration and security crisis. at the same time, it was the council’s explicit wish to create sufficient margins to enable us to cope with the unforeseen situations that we will certainly have to face in the course of the next year. i take due note of the various amendments to the council’s position that you will probably debate today and intend to vote tomorrow. please allow me to make just some preliminary remarks in this context. first of all, the council is very concerned at the significant increases of appropriations proposed by parliament, in some cases going beyond the ceilings fixed in the mff. if we look at the details, the council notes that substantial reinforcements are proposed for horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility. these would bring us one year back, actually, to when negotiating the regulation establishing the european fund for strategic investments, and this is not consistent with the agreement we reached together on this. as for the strengthening of the youth employment initiative, the council prefers not to pre—empt the commission’s examination on the best way to give continuity to the initiative, which indeed has made good progress this year. as you are all aware, 2017 will be the last year to reach a target of reducing the staff of all institutions and other eu bodies by 5%. i am confident that parliament also shares the same objective and agrees that it should be reflected in the next year’s budget for every section. overall, the difference between our respective positions totals eur 6 billion in commitment appropriations and 4.2 billion in payment appropriations. we do need to work constructively during the conciliation procedure in order to bridge this gap. the council is ready to stick to the calendar agreed between our institutions on the budget negotiations and to reach an agreement within the deadlines set out by the treaty. the council will do so in good faith and without setting any preconditions for these negotiations.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr geier and mr tarand, and minister lesay, for their opening comments. as we all know, the budget proposal for 2017 was tabled back in june. it is a disciplined proposal focused on the two priorities that are defining the parameters of what we do: jobs, growth and investment, and migration, refugees and security. i want to thank parliament and the council for aligning with the commission’s proposal on the package of measures for migration and security. i would also like to welcome the amendments proposed by the committee on budgets to restore the cuts made by the council in the readings. i hope that this will give us a chance to make progress in the negotiations to have the funding that is necessary. i also want to recognise that, on a number of items, the parliament has gone further than the commission’s proposal – to reinforce appropriations to promote jobs and growth and also actions in the external domain. this lifts us up above the ceilings and, from the perspective of the commission, it would be important to address these amendments in the executability letter so that, ahead of the vote, we can make a sound judgment on how far it is practically possible to go. i want to say a couple of words about amending letter number one, since this has a direct relation to the draft 2017 budget. this has three main objectives. firstly, to apply the assessment under the mid—term review and revision for reinforcement of some spending programs under heading 1a. these are successful programmes. they contribute, in our view, to more dynamism in our economy, and the amount proposed is eur 200 million plus eur 500 million for the youth employment initiative to be integrated in the course of the year. secondly, to step up action on the external front to address the root causes of migration, and here we have eur 750 million to support the partnership framework process – these are the so-called compacts – and eur 250 million to provision the european fund for sustainable development. we also, on the internal front, have proposed some adjustments in increased staffing for the european counter terrorism centre within europol. thirdly, to update agriculture expenditure. we have announced eur 500 million for our dairy sector. this is in addition to eur 100 million that is already in the budget for certain fruits and vegetables. so we have these actions proposed. what would they mean? they would mean a recourse to the contingency margin for an amount of about eur 1 billion, which would allow us to make use of the flexibility available in the current financial framework. we have in this amending letter a great deal of convergence with the amendments that were proposed by the parliament. i will not list them, as i am sure you have recognised where this alignment has taken place. we believe that the necessity to apply judgment on the 2017 budget, as we also debate on a separate, formally independent, track the midterm review and revision. this necessity is very obvious when we read the amending letter number one. what it means for us in the commission is to state clearly that, while these two processes are separate, we have to be sure that they go on a parallel track in time so we can complete during the conciliation period our negotiations on the 2017 budget. let me say just a word on payment appropriations: we provided you with the latest state of play just last week. our best estimate is that the proposal from parliament to restore most of the appropriations to the level of our draft budget are actually aligned with this most recent clear estimate. in conclusion, we have work to do; so we will do our part to be available to provide detailed information to answer any requests that may come from parliament and the council. i hope that, as we do so, parliament would be able to agree with the 2017 budget without reserves. that would be very helpful, so as not to hinder implementation. finally, the clock is ticking and 16 november is approaching, so let us use this discussion productively to get a budget for our economy, for our people.
draftswoman of the committee on budgetary control. madam president, commissioner, i see 2017 as a watershed year for the european union budget. first, it will be the balance-sheet year of the seven-year programming period. we'll be able to gather relevant data and evaluate it. we must look for the real added value of european projects and in the context of the audit i consider it necessary to learn from any mistakes and shortcomings and draw concrete conclusions from them. secondly, it will be the year when the brexit negotiations begin, and the budget must also respond to other challenges such as the challenge of migration, the related cooperation with turkey, the need for a recovery in investment in europe or the risk of the single internal market breaking up. in addition to these political priorities, we need to focus both the budget and its control in a balanced way on efficiency, added value and simplification. the focus on budgetary performance is the main recommendation of the committee on budgetary control. let's see 2017 as an opportunity to show us where the eu budget should go in the years ahead.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if i had a magic earpiece, as in the famous czech children's fairy tale, i would not hesitate to call for the abolition of the vast majority of expenditure in the european union budget, because i consider it to be wasted or unnecessary. when i talk to farmers, they say: we don't want subsidies, we just need to have no subsidies, and we will be able to compete with our agricultural products in fair competition. why do we have to have regional subsidies? look at the competing organization, the european free trade association. they're countries of different economic levels, they also have remote regions. do you think they need something like regional, cohesive or structural subsidies? they don't need to. but i'm aware that i don't have a magic button or a headset, that in this vote most of you will probably see it differently, so our group is at least proposing a certain minimum, which i think you might at least consider. why should we give money to promote monetary union and the euro? everyone knows what the euro is and how it is doing, or failing. we propose to abolish these expenditures, we propose to abolish the guarantee expenditure in the fund for strategic investments, companies should decide for themselves whether to invest, not the european parliament, and so on.
mr president, first of all i must say that i consider the european semester, and especially country-specific recommendations, as one of the key economic policies of the european union, the policy that should contribute to the stability and growth of our economies. but this is also a policy that does not work properly. the policy is not delivering the goals and again i am speaking especially about country- specific recommendations. i guess we all know the numbers. more than two thirds of recommendations are just ignored by the government. as a consequence we have economic growth that is too sluggish and below potential, we have unemployment that is too high, we have a lack of confidence in the economy and also a lack of confidence in the european union. last time, a year ago, when i was talking here, i had some doubts about the structure of the recommendations. this year i must say that i appreciate the work that has been done by the commission. i reviewed a country-specific recommendation for countries that i know and i must say it is well done. so where do we stand? we are in what is a quite a usual position for the european union: we have a good, or at least reasonable, policy; we have all respect for that, and we have weak enforcement. the consequence is damage for all of us. i know it is a matter of subsidiarity but there is something we can do about it. we should focus on existing policy and implementation, and not invent more regulation, new policies and new reports. this will make life better for all of us.
rapporteur. – madam president, today marks a day when we can say that we are one step closer to dignity and respect for all of our citizens, including those with disabilities. this is because of the hard work of this house and thanks to the true leadership of the dutch presidency, which understood that this piece of legislation is vital. europe is now not only on the cusp of a digital revolution, but we are in the middle of it. it is the policy of the union that every sector, both private and public, should be digital, and that by going digital we will renew growth in europe and make life easier for our citizens. if our digital services are not accessible to all of our citizens, we are not helping them but are instead holding many back and introducing new barriers. there are more than 80 million europeans with a disability. as we age, every one of us will have either a temporary or permanent disability at some point. this is as true for those digital natives among us as it is for those born before the internet. making digital information accessible is as much in our own individual interest as that of society as a whole. i am proud that, as of tomorrow, web accessibility will be the law of the land in europe. every government website and – maybe more importantly – every government application will have to be accessible. this law applies not only to the public, but also to internal government websites, meaning that it will help the millions of government employees with disabilities and help open new job opportunities for others. this law means that all online and digital forums and all payment systems will have to be accessible. it will end the outlandish situation whereby we require people to pay their taxes online, only to create a website that not all people can use. today, we are saying that e—government must be open and service all citizens. for this reason, i am proud. is this the final step? no, mr commissioner, it is not. there are still some limitations to making this law proportional, but, if something is not accessible, governments will now be accountable to give a clear reason why it is not, and that reason cannot be that it would simply cost too much. every citizen will have a right to challenge such a decision. it is also not the last step because the digital world is more than government websites alone. we still need a strong european accessibility act that covers both the digital and physical worlds. parliament has a good voice for this in my colleague, mr løkkegaard. we need to adopt the accessibility act as soon as possible. when it has been adopted, the two combined will mean that we can say that we have served our citizens well and done everything we can to help all of them. i am proud to have my name attached to this legislation, and i look forward to its adoption tomorrow.
access to information and services is taken for granted in today's digitalised society. however, only one third of eu public sector websites meet international internet accessibility standards. in practice, therefore, many public services online are not accessible to many people with disabilities, but also to older people, for example. the adoption of this proposal will significantly facilitate the accessibility and use of services for disadvantaged people and improve their quality of life. i would like to highlight the role of the ep in the legislative process. we have managed to achieve full accessibility of the websites managed by the public sector, including mobile applications. as the shadow rapporteur of the european accessibility act, i believe that by endorsing this text, our commitment to allow european citizens to enjoy the use of ordinary services and goods without distinction and on an equal basis does not end. access to some of the key products and services provided by the act is another, equally important, prerequisite for the full participation of all citizens in society. let us not forget that we need to create a digital single market for all eu citizens.
member of the commission. – madam president, of course i agree with those very sensitive words said to us by madam kuneva. it is of course regrettable that our legislative process takes time but, as i already mentioned earlier, the web accessibility directive is a cornerstone of an inclusive digital single market. of course it demonstrates once more that co-legislators can work together to create a better europe, enhancing social inclusion and eliminating barriers hampering competition, competitiveness and economic growth. i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms dita charanzová, and the shadow rapporteurs, for their dedicated and hard work to get the directive to this stage. we look forward to the vote of adoption by parliament and assure you that we are fully committed to helping and facilitating the implementation of the directive.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner andriukaitis, i think this debate has confirmed what i said at the beginning. we all believe that each individual must be treated with dignity and respect by our governments and our society. this will be endorsed tomorrow when both this legislation and a pilot project that supports it are adopted. eur 600 000 will be available to make the web accessible, thanks to the members of this house. i hope that the commission will use this money wisely. let me end by thanking all the shadows and colleagues who expressed their views today. i would also like to thank everyone in this house who made this possible, especially the policy adviser of the alde group, thierry masson, and my assistant andrew hillman, as well as the whole imco secretariat and our chair, vicky ford. i look forward to our parliament continuing to be a voice for all the people of europe, including persons with disabilities.
in writing. i welcome the initiative of my colleagues and support the reduction of industrially produced trans-fatty acids in food. since the adoption of regulation (eu) no 1169/2011, it has been confirmed that such restrictions have a positive impact on public health. the commission's december 2015 report furthermore assessed that this is a quick and efficient way to achieve this. this is certainly good news, given that the intake of trans fat remains one of the main risk factors for the development of ischaemic heart disease, but there is a need to continue to improve prevention. it is estimated that this disease alone is responsible for around 660 000 deaths per year in the eu, about 14% of all deaths. cardiovascular diseases kill 4 million people in the eu every year, and still account for almost half of all deaths. it is therefore striking that the commission has not assessed, within its mandate, the need to present a legislative proposal aimed at excluding trans-fatty acids from the eu food supply chain in the long term by introducing either mandatory labelling of trans-fatty acids or a union legal upper limit of industrially produced trans-fatty acids for all foods. the immediate introduction of eu-wide legislation has long been supported by leading experts, notably the european association of cardiologists, consumer organisations and manufacturers.
madam president, mr tusk, i am afraid i have two or three critical remarks on the european council conclusions. if i look at trade, it says that the eu is committed to a robust trade policy, etc., and then the first paragraphs of substance say that uk interests include fully defending and promoting the social environment, etc. in this context, the european council believes that unfair trade practices... now, don’t get me wrong. i want an improved defence mechanism, but i expected a certain leadership here, a certain kind of courage in saying what the agreement and what ceta really means, why it should be signed at the outset and as soon as possible. what mr lamberts has said here today is not true. we had a mandate, and neither wallonia nor belgium raised those issues of concern when the mandate was approved. secondly, concerning russia: if we look again at the european council conclusions, what does it say? ‘the eu is considering all available options, should the current atrocities continue.’ you, as a pole, know that the russians will laugh at this text. this is a reality, and in the background there are people being killed and innocent people who humanitarian convoys are not able to reach. my final remark (i do apologise) is on migration. if we look at the european council conclusions – skip the diplomacy, skip the diplomatic language – because if you look at it – measurable results – i do not see anything measurable here.
madam president, i would like to make just a few remarks on the council agenda. first of all on migration, i guess we must understand that the programme is not over. just look at the data, and look at the pictures from italy and greece. the pressure is lower but i call on the council not to underestimate the situation and not to repeat the mistakes that we made in recent months. we must act, and we must act together. that is the only way to solve the issue. secondly, let me express surprise about the behaviour of the commission and the council in the case of creating the trade defence instruments for europe. we have known for many years that in december this year there would be a change in our relation to china, and it was said not only by this house that we must react. i am surprised the debate is taking place only now. finally, on russia, i guess even a few hours after the council meeting we can see that we made a mistake, and that our policy does not work. it is costing lives and it is not getting us any closer to a solution. i do not want to remind you of the situation in ukraine, which is tragic. so i call on the council to act clearly, decisively and responsibly. last let me say that many speakers in this house talk about democracy and the voice of the people. if i understand correctly, 28 out of the 28 governments of the member states support the ceta agreements. i don’t want to remind you, for example, of the history of my communist country and what was ‘the voice of the people’ there, so please be responsible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the budget as it restored the initial budgets under the connecting europe facility and the horizon 2020 programme. both of these programmes suffered cuts to pay for the eu’s contribution to the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). it also reinforces budgetary lines on improving access to finance and innovation for smes and increase the funding and staffing for europol in order to create a 24/7 counter-terrorism unit. now negotiations will the council will start, it will be a tough fight, but the budget team is going there with a strong mandate
in writing. ‒ i voted for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 because it states for an ambitious response to current challenges. i support boosting the economic and employment growth by supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and via recovery of funds for the interconnection of europe and horizon 2020, the biggest eu research and innovation programme. with regard to fight against terrorism, i am also in favour of increasing the support for europol and the new agency of border guards and european coastguard, two key structures which i believe can make the eu a safer place.
in writing. ‒ as every year, we voted on the report on the council's position on the draft general budget of the european union for the new financial year. even this year, i couldn't agree with the budget that was presented. this is despite several positive things that have emerged in the council's position, such as avoiding some of the non-conceptual cuts that the european commission has made, more funds for growth, increased competitiveness and improvements in the social situation. from the outset, i disagree with the commission's attempt to include military research funding in the budget, which is a flagrant breach of eu primary law. in my view, the budget must be cut back from all unnecessary ballast and unnecessary initiatives which are just a waste of resources, and focus on issues such as migration and reducing social disparities between member states, in particular the convergence of living standards in the western and eastern member states. which again, didn't quite reflect. i also personally support other research activities in the fields of energy and space (iter, cern, esa budget, galileo, copernicus, etc.). i think it's a good idea to have a bigger emergency fund. since the current budget is far from ideal, but i see some positive changes in it, i have decided to abstain from voting.
in writing. - i voted against it. i voted first for amendments that would limit the salaries and allowances of meps, then for those that would limit the eu's self-promotion expenditure, etc. these amendments failed. on the contrary, i voted against many of the additional spending that passed. a spending programme 'disseminating eu values through music' of €1.2 million was introduced. eur 6 million was spent on the olympic games in austria. the gender equality institute has been upgraded. overall, i consider the vast majority of the eu budget of 160 billion to be a waste.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft budget of the european union for 2017. the total budget of the european parliament for 2017 will be about 1.2% of the eu budget, according to our proposal. it could be even less if parliament did not have to move to strasbourg for a week every month, which i have been fighting for for a long time. i welcome the request to increase the budget of the erasmus+ programme, which i am working on as vice-chair of the cult committee. i strongly believe that further support for erasmus plus will result in increased mobility of pupils and teachers between eu member states. this programme should continue to improve opportunities for teaching foreign languages, sharing examples of good practice and building partnerships between schools. its extension should also allow more scope for the use of activities prepared by youth organisations and the european voluntary service. in the light of the current security situation, i also very much welcome the fact that the eu budget for 2017 allocates a significantly higher share of security resources than last year, to support security institutions such as europol, which not only help to address the migration and refugee crisis, but also fight terrorism.
in writing. i supported the ep resolution on the draft eu budget for 2017. i am pleased that the text has been able to incorporate a substantial increase in funding for the european agencies europol, eurojust, easo and others. these agencies, among other things, are working hard to improve the eu-wide security situation and are making a significant contribution to addressing and managing the current migration crisis. europol, for example, launched a new counter-terrorism centre this year, has made a significant contribution to improving the exchange of information between member states and continues to provide the eu's basis for much-needed cooperation between member states. i also support the increase in the budget for erasmus plus. the programme, which contributes to deepening european integration and creating a common european culture and identity, is one of the most fruitful initiatives in today's europe of populism and xenophobia. i was also very pleased to express my support for the new interrail initiative of the european people's party. this is a project whereby eu citizens would receive a monthly rail ticket across the eu on their 18th birthday. i would also like to reiterate my support for the idea of a single seat for the ep. i therefore supported this point in the resolution, but i am also aware that the ep does not have the power of initiative in this matter. the agreement of the member states is required to change this established practice. members may only express their disagreement with the two seats by means of a non-binding initiative.
i could not support the eu budget for next year as a whole because it contains a number of redundant items. on the contrary, i support investments in research and development and other areas for future growth, such as projects linking private and public capital under horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for resolution on the mid-term revision of the multiannual financial framework which calls for a real revision of the mff to address eu current challenges. i welcome the fact that the commission presented a revision of the mff, which was too restrictive, to deal with the security and migrations challenges we are facing. this ambitious reform reflects eu political commitments and ensure european money is spent where it is most needed. it was essential for the european parliament to link the revision of the multiannual financial framework to the 2017 annual budget, as the decisions on the former one are expected to be integrated into the latter. that is why in the ep position the 2017 budget reflects the smart proposal of the mid-term review made by the commission.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the claim that the eu has little money from citizens and member states. i also disagree with the proposal for a new spending programme 'european interrail network ticket for the 18th birthday', which i consider to be europopulism and a waste of taxpayers' money.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the mid-term review of the mff, which highlighted the lack of resources under the current mff in relation to the migration and refugee crisis, crisis events abroad and internal security issues. i am pleased that our group has succeeded in putting into the text the emphasis on the mobility of young people in the face of the threat of populism and the spread of disinformation and in supporting the implementation of the new initiative 'european interrail network ticket for the 18th birthday', which consists in giving every european citizen a free interrail network ticket when he or she turns 18. the most appropriate and budget-friendly way of financing this initiative will still have to be found, but it is important to express political support for it at this stage.
in writing. ‒ the current multiannual financial framework no longer meets the current needs and challenges facing the union. that is why i supported the motion for a resolution on the review of this budgetary instrument. in 2013, when the framework was adopted, it was not yet known to what extent the old continent would be affected by the migration and refugee crisis, nor for how long it would be possible to restart investment activities and mobilise young people and their employment. i voted in favour of this report, even though the resolution is based on the content of its predecessor, i.e. the resolution on the mff of 6 july 2016. however, unlike the aforementioned earlier report, the return regulation does not properly address the migration crisis causing further disintegration on the european continent. it is necessary to recognise that the european budget needs more flexibility to be able to respond to current and future challenges. i hope very much that the council will reflect on the outcome of the vote in parliament and give the slovak presidency a mandate so that the interinstitutional negotiations can take place as quickly as possible, in line with the adoption of the future budget. if the representatives of the member states are to hesitate, they alone will be to blame for the fact that the union budget continues to face several serious problems. the european parliament is ready to actively seek solutions, as stated in the current framework regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mff resolution backing the main elements of the commission’s proposal to revise the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020. indeed, i welcome the proposals in the mff package as regards extending the budgetary flexibility and i believe that the proposal to create an eu crisis reserve as an instrument to make it possible to react swiftly to crises and other events with serious humanitarian or security implications is important.
in writing. - i decided to support this report. the revision of the mff is very important at the moment, as we can no longer live off the financial planning that was approved in 2013. i am aware that the report mentions the 'european interrail network ticket' initiative on the occasion of my 18th birthday, which i have long opposed. i could not, however, reject such an important report as a whole on the basis of this detail, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i supported the release of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for redundant workers in the oil and chemicals sector in estonia. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns or by the global financial and economic crisis and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. i voted in favour of granting financial assistance to redundant workers through the egf, given the considerable impact on the local and regional economy.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree that estonia should receive €1 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund to pay redundant workers at the gas company esti energia. social policy should be a matter for member states, governments should not ad hoc help individual firms and workers. i consider the whole european globalisation adjustment fund to be a socialist redistribution of money, and i think it should be abolished.
in estonia, as many as 1 550 workers were made redundant in three chemical companies. that is why i voted for the necessary release of funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund, which was created specifically for such situations. the estonian economy has been shaken by developments in the global oil market and by alternative and cheaper imports of products from outside the european union. estonia has fulfilled all the necessary criteria for support from this fund. i voted to give the redundant employees some eur 1.1 million in assistance. more specifically, it will provide individual assistance and support for the follow-up of further studies, training, counselling and allowances for transport and accommodation during self-development. i also supported the involvement of not only central authorities but also regional authorities in the implementation of the measures. also representatives of employees and employers. i believe that these funds will help the most vulnerable group of redundant workers to find new jobs and thus contribute to the diversification of trade, which accounts for more than three quarters of the estonian economy. i also believe that the funds provided to estonia until 2019 will mitigate the impact of redundancies in the chemical industry on other sectors, including the processing, mining and energy sectors.
in writing. ‒ estonia is a small open economy with a high reliance on exports of goods and services. as a result, the estonian economy highly suffered from the recent volatility in the global oil and a general decrease in europe’s international trade. the high concentration of industries dependent on oil and gas prices in northern area of estonia was in particular badly hit by redundancies in the manufacture of petroleum and chemicals products. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of funds, eur 1 131 358, which will benefit 1 550 estonians in need of assistance to find employment and social security.
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption of a european parliament and council directive on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications dealing with barriers for persons with disabilities, as there is a need to ensure that barriers in this area are removed. the directive shall ensure adequate access to information for blind, deaf and otherwise disabled persons. for example, audio files on the website will be subtitled and visually impaired people will be given audio descriptions of graphic images.
in writing. i supported the agreement reached by the ep and the council at second reading, which means increasing the accessibility requirements for public authorities' websites and mobile applications and fully involving all citizens, including older people and people with disabilities, in the information society and the digital single market. the content-related directive adopted in fact takes over existing technical standards (e.g. the ability to navigate a website without using a mouse) and ensures that accessibility requirements do not impose an excessive administrative burden on public authorities.
in writing. ‒ national differences in the accessibility of website and mobile applications within the eu often impose unnecessary burdens and barriers on companies as well as citizens, especially the ones that use assistive technologies, such as the visually and hearing impaired. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that in harmonising national differences in website and application accessibility, we can ensure consistency across the board in the eu and ensure that people with disabilities have access to the same public services as anyone else.
in writing. ‒ i support this directive with my vote and am glad that it has finally been successfully completed. it is clear that in recent years, more and more of our communications have moved to the internet and that most aspects of human life are being digitised. i therefore welcome the fact that the european union is responding to this trend by introducing legislation on the accessibility of public sector websites and applications. personally, i see the greatest potential of the disabled citizens and seniors directive. enabling electronic communication with government agencies, such as hospitals and police, will save them time and money, but most importantly, it will make their lives easier.
in writing. ‒ the position agreed by the european parliament at first reading has moved significantly towards aligning the text of the council's position. i do not support the new draft import regime either, because there must be a balance between import restrictions and the protection of commercial interests. the conservation measures proposed in this version of the proposal do not guarantee this. for these reasons, i agree with the motion to reject the council's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the new rules outlined in the protective measures against pests and plants seeks to introduce new preventive and rapid response mechanisms for plant imports into the eu and increase pest surveillance efforts in the eu in the aim of protecting european farmers. however, the measures will make it more difficult and more expensive for traders to import plants and plant products into the eu since almost every plant that is grown outdoors will be faced with the possibility of being banned by the eu commission from entering the eu. for this reason, i voted against the proposal because i believe that the action is disproportionate to the risk.
in writing. plant health is a hot topic and it is clearly a subject that needs to be protected. i therefore support this text on protection measures against harmful organisms. diseases and pests that spread between plants do not respect national borders and can spread unstoppably throughout the european union. i therefore believe that we need a common approach and appropriate tools to help us prevent such cases. the problem is compounded by the fact that many plants are imported into europe from third countries, and it is therefore necessary to have clear rules for their importation in order to avoid the introduction of undesirable organisms into the eu and damage to european agriculture as such.
in writing. i appreciate that the european semester is now more focused on employment outcomes, especially when the eu still has incredibly high levels of unemployment with over 4 million unemployed people under the age of 25. unfortunately, the report lacks some very important points, such as the emphasis on growth for modernising the economy and the establishment of binding recommendations for member states. this report is a typical example of a 'christmas tree' on which other topics and areas are being wrapped. for these reasons, i voted against the report.
in writing. on 26 october 2016, we voted in the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementation of the priorities for 2016. the european semester, like the budget, is one of the financial instruments that is voted on each year. anyone who's been watching me for a while knows that i'm not a big fan of this instrument. however, this instrument exists and will continue to exist, which is why our political group tries to improve it every year, at least a little bit, to lead to greater social justice, tackling social exclusion and intergenerational solidarity. since our key amendments, rejecting the blind policy of budget cuts in the member states affected by the financial crisis, aiming at greater control and the tying up of the financial sector, or giving the possibility to those member states of the monetary union which freely choose to withdraw from it, including the subsequent financial and expert assistance with this step, did not pass, i had to vote against this document as usual.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report merely notes that the eu is growing more slowly than expected. the amendments tabled by my group, which name the causes of the economic difficulties in the euro area, have not been adopted. i do not agree with the call for deeper coordination of tax policies. on the contrary, i am in favour of keeping tax policy within the competence of the member states to the maximum extent possible.
in writing. ‒ the european semester is the eu’s annual cycle of economic policy guidance and surveillance. i am pleased to share the european parliament’s input into the second phase of the semester 2016 focusing on the country specific implementation of priorities agreed within the annual growth survey 2016 report in february. last year’s heavily right-wing report was replaced by socially balanced structural reforms and increased investment as supported by the s&d group. thankfully, the report now clearly focuses on the need to increase investment in the eu in order to create more growth, convergence, quality jobs and fight poverty and inequality. also following the inclusion of the opinion from the employment and social affairs committee, the report now calls for a social imbalance procedure to be introduced into the economic coordination and a european minimum income framework to fight social exclusion in the eu. i urge that the eu and the member states better implement the revised economic policy mix which aims at increasing investment linked to eu2020 policies objectives including quality employment, education, innovation and growth enhancing policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as key alde points such as a reference to the importance that wages should be in line with productivity, that measures should be taken to improve the business environment to incentivise investment, that a fully integrated eu labour market should be created, or that csrs should become binding, have been rejected in the vote in committee. moreover, there is a reference to the com communication advocating excessive flexibility in the sgp, which the group has not supported in the past.
in writing. ‒ industrial trans fats can be found in anything from fast food to bakery products, chips and margarine, however scientific research has linked the excessive consumption of them with obesity, diabetes, infertility, alzheimer’s and cardiovascular diseases. with 660 000 deaths annually in the eu, heart disease is one of europe’s biggest killers. given that trans fats bring more risk of heart disease than any other macro-nutrient on a per-calorie basis, it is important that we limit their consumption and that consumers know when they are eating them. currently, no eu legislation regulates the content of trans fats in food products or requires their labelling, although some countries do. imposing limits proved efficient and reduced death caused by heart disease significantly, like in denmark. i believe the eu should follow this path, which is what the text calls for.
in writing. on 26 october 2016, at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, we voted on an oral question to the european commission with a subsequent resolution on trans-fatty acids. trans fatty acids in food have been shown to increase the levels of unhealthy cholesterol in consumers, contribute to cardiovascular disease and diabetes, as well as to certain cancers and allergies. they're even linked to alzheimer's and infertility. it is found, for example, in various ointments, margarines, baked goods, confectionery, chocolate substitutes, potatoes, biscuits, and mayonnaise. so in a fairly wide range of everyday foods. the resolution calls on the european commission to propose as soon as possible a binding limit for industrially used trans-fatty acids in order to reduce their intake among all groups of the population. in addition, the text mentions several very important related facts such as the proper labelling of packaged foods containing trans-fatty acids, the lack of information for consumers and even the alarming trend towards unhealthy food choices in low-income households. i'm very glad i could support such a proposal.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report calls for eu regulation of the percentage of so-called trans fatty acids in food, i believe that a european-wide regulation on the maximum percentage of so-called trans fatty acids in food would be difficult to control. i would leave it to the member states to decide whether they want to and can control the content of so-called trans-fatty acids in food. different national practices might then show which type of regulation is most effective.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the harm and health risks associated with the consumption of food containing industrially produced fatty acids. for example, these substances are found in foods sold in many fast-food establishments, as trans-fatty acids are cheaper and can be reused. it is no secret that eating such foods can have serious consequences for human health, causing cardiovascular disease, gallstones, and, not least, various cancers. i therefore fully support parliament's call for the member states to introduce legal limits for industrially produced trans-fatty acids in order to protect the health of their citizens. a positive example in this respect is denmark, where the introduction of similar measures has had a positive impact on reducing the number of deaths due to cardiovascular disease.
in writing. the current situation with regard to trans-fatty acids in food is largely incomprehensible. the negative impact of trans-fatty acids on human health has long been highlighted by both health and consumer organisations. consumers often consume them against their will, because legislation prohibits their presence on the packaging. first, the commission ignores the legislative obligation to subsequently publish, with a one-year delay, a report that heart disease is the number one cause of death in the eu and that high intake of trans-fatty acids significantly increases the risk of heart disease. it also acknowledges that food products with high levels of industrially produced trans-fatty acids are available on the market and that there is scope for improving public health if their intake is reduced. the european solution is out of sight, and some member states are introducing national legislative restrictions in the meantime. i believe that it is high time to adopt common rules on the internal market, i.e. a legislative proposal to restrict trans-fatty acids in food, and that is why i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ industrial trans fats have harmful health effects and are not well understood by many consumers in the eu. the best way to mitigate the risk that trans fats cause consumers would be to effectively lower the consumption of unhealthy trans fats by establishing legal limits for them, an effort which was already tested and found to be successful in denmark. i voted in favour of the motion for resolutions because i believe the eu needs to protect its citizens, who are often ill-informed, against a lethal and under-regulated product that is found hidden in nearly every food product on the shelves.
for the alde group. the european court of auditors' annual report for 2015 was published at a crucial juncture for the budgetary policy of the european union. the report itself makes important observations on the joint use of european funds to which citizens of all 28 member states contribute and should therefore be of substantial interest to them. at first sight, the conclusions of the report do not differ significantly from those of previous years in terms of legality, correctness and error. there is one difference i feel very strongly about. the trend is to take account of the added value of individual projects and investments, in addition to the factual accuracy of the use of european funds. i have also worked in this spirit on my report on the european commission's 2014 budget last year, and i appreciate that, little by little, this effort is being integrated into the other activities of all the european institutions. this time, the court's report has used the results-oriented approach more widely in horizon 2020, the largest programme of its kind in the world. this programme is concerned with science and research, where results are expected almost automatically, as support is directed towards projects of high quality and standard. in the context of future european court of auditors reports on the commission's management, i can imagine that budget chapters will be evaluated not only on the basis of error rates but will also take into account or use integrated and comprehensive result indicators. evaluating the effectiveness of projects in terms of outcome and performance is a new way forward. the priorities to be financed from the european budget change substantially over time, as do the conditions around us. and the use of the budget must respond to them. the european union must be more flexible, more focused on european added value, more simple and more focused on achieving results, not just on paper. if our common objective is to achieve, in particular, the added value of each euro invested, we must change the established rules (both withdrawal and controls) and set new ones that respond to the real needs of europe in the 21st century. i thank both institutions, the commission and the european court of auditors, for the path we are taking together, slowly but surely.
the question posed by the blue card. mr stugere, you dare to assess the work of the ppe, s&d, alde and other groups in this honourable chamber and criticise the fact that once a year we criticise the budget here. what do you know about our work? how many times have you been to cont budget meetings, how many times have you seen our work, how many times have you seen the discharge roll? mr. speaker, would it not be worthwhile for you to actually start working in this house sometime and attend the cont committee? thank you for your answer.
i didn't want to take the time to react to a colleague's speech, but it's clear he knows nothing about our work. i hope that by the next part-session they will realise that the job of an mep is not just to vote here in strasbourg. the eu is currently facing, mr president and mrs vice-president of the european commission, a series of major events affecting the future. the most profound impact on our functioning is certainly the loss of confidence in the european electorate and the general discontent of citizens with the eu. that's something we have to change. we are the eu, we are responsible for the eu. it's not about mindlessly spending some money, but it's about thinking about efficiency. i will not criticize 3.8 or 2.2% of the error rate, because someone who does not know the context and does not know that in moldova the government has changed five times in one year and that you do not have partners to negotiate anything in this state, will criticize that there is some error. they're just numbers, ladies and gentlemen. on the contrary, we must prevent european citizens from seeing european funding as an opportunity for fraud and corruption. lastly, mr president, let me say that i believe in the commissioner's ambition and i believe that she will try to get the error rate down to 2 and less than 1%.
i consider the problem of 65 million children who are thus at risk to be extremely serious. i want to emphasize that this number is incredibly huge. i'm almost reluctant to believe that number is real, but i firmly believe that the premise is correct. in my judgment, we have to agree that, of course, children are the most vulnerable. on the other hand, we should place the greatest emphasis on preventive measures to prevent these situations from occurring, to prevent such a large number of unaccompanied minors from actually taking a dangerous journey. the measures we have discussed many times and are in fact constantly being repeated. we should also contribute to the fact that the problem that will grow, that migration will undoubtedly continue to grow, so other eu policies should address more than just restricting migration too much. we should engage our other tools that we have to deal with this problem, because without real prevention and then follow-up measures that we implement in dealing with the children's problem, we're not really going to get one millimeter further.
madam president, of course the only way to defeat isis is to take back the territory. i think that victory hopefully not far from us in mosul and later on in iraq, are the best signs of the weakening of isis. but victory is not the end. victory, as the commissioner also hinted, is the start. i think that we all know that the sunni residents are not keen on the government in baghdad or on the shiites and we do have political, social and other dilemmas that have been in iraq for years. we will need to find an answer. i think that is where, commissioner, as you have also said, we will have to work with the iraqi government, with the regional governments, with the international community, to come up with a strategy, to have a long-lasting solution. there is one other point that we have to be prepared for, of course. defeating isis on the ground does not mean that the jihadists will not change and reinforce what they have been doing in the past and that is terrorist attacks in europe. we need to be prepared for that as well and we should debate both issues in the future here in the plenary.
for the ppe group. in october of 2001, american planes started bombing afghanistan. that same year, american ground troops entered the country. in 2002, there was a sudden shift in the demographics of afghanistan. within months, some 5 million people who had fled the soviet occupation and the subsequent mujahideen war with the taliban returned home. they were mostly returning from iran and pakistan. the return of refugees was spontaneous, no one organized or ordered their return. five million people understood that the american intervention had ended 25 years of devastating wars. after foreign troops began leaving afghanistan in 2013, the flow of refugees reversed again. people started leaving afghanistan. afghans have thus become the largest group of refugees seeking eu membership and asylum in the eu, after syrians. i would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to one crucial fact that the eu should be addressing. during the us presence and the presence of isaf international forces, several tens of thousands of afghan citizens have cooperated with these armed forces. because of the withdrawal of international forces, these people are being laid off and losing their jobs. they and their families are often branded by the taliban as traitors to their faith and nation, and their lives are in direct danger. these people, ladies and gentlemen, have been our direct allies in the armed struggle against the islamists and we cannot leave them to their fate. they're a big part of the afghan refugee wave. we cannot allow a security vacuum in afghanistan. if we allow it, nothing will stop young people from making the dangerous journey to europe. europe, together with the international community, must not let up in its support for the afghan national defence and security forces. the continued presence of nato, us troops and an eu military presence, for example through a police mission in afghanistan, is inevitable.
parliamentary elections in belarus were not free. the opposition had and has a minimum of space for its implementation. in february this year, the eu lifted sanctions against belarus as a goodwill gesture, notably with regard to the release of six political prisoners. but these people have not been rehabilitated to this day, they continue to be deprived of their civil and political rights. since 2000, no party has been registered in belarus. as the report of the un special rapporteur on human rights in belarus shows, human rights violations continue and there has been no fundamental change in this area. local elections are scheduled to be held in belarus in march 2018. in the meantime, the eu must use all available means to call on its belarusian counterparts to implement the osce/odihr election recommendations in good time. i reject any further gestures of goodwill from the eu until there is real, visible and tangible progress on this issue and on human rights.
the commissioner informed us that the european commission is trying to communicate with belarus, but she has heard from us that we are not satisfied with the level of democracy and respect for human rights in belarus. from left to right, we hear here in the ep that elections should not be recognised, that civil rights are restricted, that freedom in universities is restricted, that free access to education has been restored, that the death penalty has been reinstated, all of which are typical features of a dictatorship. i consider it very dangerous that belarus, this undemocratic regime, is building a new nuclear power plant near lithuania, close to the eu border. there are no safety guarantees. i would like to call on the commissioner and, through her, on the european commission to take action to inspect this newly built nuclear power station. the iaea audit can be used. it's a major security risk that i see here. we know there was a malfunction. the belarusian government has tried to keep it secret, which means that it is a regime that is not transparent, that poses great risks, especially when building such a crucial construction. i ask the commissioner to discuss this audit within the european commission and in the negotiations with belarus.
the question posed by the blue card. madam president, i am not in favour of turkey joining the european union. but i want to ask you. do you think president erdogan wants to join the european union? do you really think this man wants to join the union of values and respect human and civil rights?
madam president, the turkish government this month extended the state of emergency in turkey for another three months, extending the possibility of legitimizing further repression against journalists. restrictions on the media are nothing new in turkey, but under the state of emergency, these measures are even tougher on the media. the turkish government has thus restricted freedom of speech in the country under the guise of fighting terrorism and has prosecuted journalists under anti-terrorism legislation. he intimidates them in this way and it also has the effect that those who can still work today limit their criticism of the regime because they are simply afraid. it reminds me very much of the atmosphere of the 1950s communist regime in czechoslovakia, when journalists and writers were also imprisoned and intimidated into silence. i recently read a sad but very telling quote from a turkish journalist: 'journalists used to meet in cafes, today they meet in prisons and courtrooms'. ladies and gentlemen, human rights and respect for them are part of the culture that turkey has embraced, but the steps it is taking now are far from that. i very much doubt that president erdogan is serious about another negotiation on accession to the european union today. president erdogan is distancing himself from european culture by what he is doing today, but i am convinced that we cannot throw overboard the turkish citizens who want to live in a democratic society, and we must stand in solidarity with them.
for the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, honourable members of the european council, i am very pleased to have you here and i am very pleased with the words you have spoken. but on the other hand, if i'm hearing this right, we've been trying to work together for three years and we want to find a solution to the council. but we've been here for three years just listening to the council can't, won't and won't do anything about what we're criticizing. the trust of the european parliament and the european citizens that we represent here, that is not just us politicians but the representatives of the european citizens sitting here, is very difficult to gain when one side does not communicate and one side of the process does not trust the other. provided that the european council and the council of the eu are very open and receptive, they can also be accountable to the citizens of the european union. unfortunately, tomorrow the european parliament will not again give a discharge on the correct use of the european budget, that is, it will express its vote of no confidence in the council. unfortunately, we have not heard any reaction from the council to our comments and recommendations. yes, the council has taken a number of measures which, we would say, make it more transparent. but in general, we could say that the progress is very minimal and there is a lack of communication. i, mr. lesay, would be very happy if you would insist that we meet in brussels in two weeks' time for an informal meeting to discuss this matter. and let's say next year, in 2015, the council gets a discharge. i would like to say to the commissioner that this is not a conflict between two institutions, between the european parliament and the council. the european parliament wants the council to be transparent.
for the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, i very much appreciate that the joint undertakings iter, eniac and artemis have taken account of all the requests and doubts we had in the spring and that we will probably be able to give them a discharge tomorrow. as there is not much more to say about these results since 2014, i would just like to open the debate on the discharge for 2015, where i should be the rapporteur for the joint undertakings. on monday, i had the opportunity to visit the iter site in cadarache, near marseille. anyone who visits this site cannot help but be impressed by the monstrosity of this project, its technological advances, and the importance of continuing its construction. on the other hand, it is certainly very difficult to adhere to the budget and the work plan. i think iter will be very closely monitored in the period ahead. i very much look forward to the council's communication, the commission's communication on the new phase of funding for iter after 2020, which we would like to see sometime at the turn of the year, and then it will be discussed by the council and the european parliament. we also need to assess very carefully, as the commissioner has said, the respect of those technological milestones which are really very important for all the parties involved in iter.
mr president, volunteering is a virtue that can be taught and nurtured and that should be developed and promoted. i am very pleased that we are dealing with this issue today and that the european commission will also be paying attention to it. as the commissioner has said, the european voluntary service provides activities which have already benefited 100 000 young europeans, and we are celebrating its 20th anniversary this year. the service is designed to enable young people under 30 to participate in voluntary activities abroad, which can last up to 12 months, without entitlement to a salary, but with the possibility of accommodation, transport, insurance and food. it's certainly a great opportunity for young people that should be developed further. volunteering projects can include many activities in the fields of youth work, cultural activities, social care or environmental protection. we're bringing this topic up here today because we believe that volunteering is an important and beneficial activity. it enriches young people with skills that are important for life and for their employment. for all of them, let's put creativity, independence, responsibility or the ability to work in a team. in international volunteer organisations, it is also the development of language skills. for adults and older citizens, volunteering is an opportunity to pass on their life experiences and to have a meaningful amount of extra free time. i know of many cases where volunteering has saved monuments, organised festivals, but also led children and young people to make meaningful use of their free time. volunteer-led youth organisations were rated by employers in surveys as making a significant contribution to the non-formal and informal learning that employers expect from young people. and a separate chapter is volunteer assistance in crisis situations. in many countries, and i can mention the czech republic, for example, volunteer firefighters who work with youth, who lead youth to save lives and property, are very important leisure activities. volunteers also help in countries affected by natural disasters and migration crises. i can say that i was very touched by the way, for example, in the volunteer centre in italy, young people helped, but also seniors with italian language classes, with the processing of residence documents for refugees. and not only in italy, but also in germany and in many other countries, also from the czech republic, volunteers joined the migration wave and helped refugees in a difficult crisis situation. the resolution we are presenting here calls for greater recognition of volunteering as such, including the status of european volunteer. it is also a source of certain skills, which should be taken into account in the framework of mobility and recognition of qualifications. the oral questions which we have put here have, i must say, been answered by the commissioner. it is clear that the european commission will continue to develop the european voluntary service, will support it and also in the framework of erasmus+ the conditions must be improved, the administration simplified. i think that volunteering should remain a spontaneous activity which, as the commissioner rightly said, should be regulated at national level. at european level, we can provide a european framework which should encourage, encourage and not restrict or impede. thank you, and i look forward to further discussion and support in the area of volunteering. (the rapporteur has agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i fully understand our british colleague's concern. i personally regret very much that by a small majority, but a majority, the people of the united kingdom have decided to leave the european union. and we must do everything we can to ensure that the agreements now being drawn up for eu-uk cooperation allow meaningful projects to continue and enable mobility, especially for young people. young people should not pay for the choices that the majority of the citizens of the united kingdom have made. the european people's party is certainly willing to negotiate the best possible relations for youth mobility.
mr president, mr commissioner, madam rapporteur, we live in a world that is becoming more and more atomized, and the basic bonds between people are being lost, and i believe that volunteering is one of the keys to change. by promoting, supporting and developing volunteering and recognising its contribution, we can help to create a more welcoming environment for all of us. volunteering offers help to those in need, while providing meaningful content to the people who help, which promotes solidarity and cooperation between people. all too often, here and in this building, we speak in phrases, and i think we'd better hear a story from experience. a longtime volunteer from the czech republic writes about volunteering: 'i give my time to people who need it, i played cards with one lady for two hours, and i held her hand in silence for an hour with another. i also spent a long time listening to interesting stories about flying around the world. it's funny, you spend your whole life in the clouds, you have everything you want, and then you get a smile from someone who takes a bus to the sea. but he also has everything he wants. volunteering is about heart, desire, and inner strength. this isn't about money, prestige, and racing, who's more, who's further, who's better. we should support such ones and offer them a helping hand. i would like to say that i have great respect for all the european volunteers and their work. they are people who don't look away when they see someone in need, and they see that human life is also about value creation, collaboration and human belonging. these are the people who deserve our support, these are the people we're supposed to be talking about here a lot more.
madam president, i would like to pay tribute to all the volunteers who devote their time and energy to this very volunteer service. i don't know if the number of 100,000 people who are supposed to be volunteers at the level of the european continent is high, but in any case, these are people who have chosen this volunteering service and we should encourage them. their impact on gdp, on social stratification and indeed on the very cohesion of society is very significant. however, as far as the status of the european volunteer is concerned, i think we should be a little more moderate, that is, we should not unnecessarily restrict the rules of this voluntary area or the area in which they carry out this work by excessive regulation. i would caution against that, because volunteering comes from civil society, from a certain openness. and i think that by regulating, we could do even more damage, which is to say, more like minimum standards.
madam president, i am very pleased that the report emphasises the importance of the european union's youth strategy in view of the alarmingly high level of youth unemployment. i believe that this is a problem that can really have a very bad effect on our future. at the last plenary session, we discussed how to give young people a bone to pick and a ticket to their 18th birthday. i believe that young people want a future first and foremost, and we're not giving it to them. right-wing austerity policies have destroyed the future prospects of millions of young people and sent them to the work force. young people want to work and it is our duty at this moment to give them a chance to work. our policies and our support must be geared to ensuring that young people find themselves in europe, do not want to leave, and find their place in europe and live in it in the future. unfortunately, i do not see that happening at the moment, and i firmly believe that the commission will continue to take an interest in this matter to the extent that it really helps young people and does not give them stupid tickets.
madam president, i would also like to join in stressing the importance and the importance of preserving rural jobs. it is estimated that by 2040, over 70% of europe's population will live in the largest cities. this migration must be at least curbed by our effective instruments of european union policy, so that the countryside does not really become depopulated and migrate only to agglomerations. this risk is very substantial. on the other hand, i would like to agree with what mrs müller said. in my opinion, the report is too french. it responds to the problems here, but it doesn't quite faithfully describe the situation on the whole european continent. i can also point to the weakening of the rural development programme, which is contained in the draft report. i consider this report controversial and will not support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted to reject the discharge, that is to say to reject the approval of the european council's final accounts. the european council has not provided the european parliament with the final accounts for 2014 and the annual report, and therefore the approval of the final accounts cannot be supported.
‒ discharge is only possible if the european institutions demonstrate sufficient transparency and are able to provide the necessary answers to parliament's budgetary questions. unfortunately, this has not been the case with the council and the european council, which show no signs of sufficient cooperation. i therefore voted in favour of refusing to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of these two institutions for 2014. although administrative expenditure accounts for only around 5% of the total union budget, it is incomprehensible that for several decades now the recipients of european taxpayers' money have not been motivated to properly present and account for their expenditure. the european budget is stretched almost to the last thread, faced with a payment crisis that even required an interinstitutional strategy to deal with. meps are also looking for ways to finance as many policies as possible to improve the well-being and security of citizens through the flexibility instruments. i regret and find it shameful that even in this context of obvious lack of funds it is not possible to officially close the accounts of the council and the european council because of their passivity. i therefore finally agreed to the idea of revising the treaties and the financial regulation. only then will the procedure for granting discharge and imposing strict penalties for non-compliance be clarified.
in writing. ‒ the second report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 outlines the use of the general budget for 2014. the report aims to afford insight into the eu budget mechanism and how the budget was managed and spent in 2014, including the different expenses of the european institutions. i voted in favour of the report, calling on parliament to refuse to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. the absence of the annual activity report is detrimental to the reputation, integrity and transparency of all the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge, i.e. against the approval of the final report of the eu eniac. eniac is a joint research institute of the commission, the member states and companies involved in nanoparticles. i do not agree with the member states and the commission having a stake in this company. i think nanotechnology research should be the business of private companies.
in writing. as shadow rapporteur for discharge for eniac, i already recommended (as opposed to the rapporteur) discharge in june. the discharge was postponed for purely formal reasons. the ecsel joint undertaking, which took over artemis and eniac in mid-2014, has in the meantime provided sufficient evidence that all accounting at national agency level was transparent and with a minimum level of error. i am pleased that the second report on discharge has thus received the full support of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking (ju), focused on nano-electronics, is a research programme aimed at enhancing the further integration and miniaturisation of devices and increasing their functionalities. the report on the 2014 budget discharge is a document that consolidates the annual accounts of the eu for the 2014 financial year on the basis of information provided by the various institutions, organisations and bodies of the eu. the document sets out how the jus spent and implemented their budget in 2014. i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the jus 2014 budget, which also made a series of recommendations to improve future budgets and on the auditing of project costs, which will allow for improvements and more transparency in future budgets.
in writing. i voted against the discharge, that is to say against the approval of the final report of the eu artemis institution. artemis is a joint computing research institute of the commission, the member states and computer technology companies. i do not agree with the member states and the commission having a stake in this company. i think computer technology research (the development of applications and programs) should be the business of private companies.
in writing. as shadow rapporteur for discharge for artemis, i already recommended (as opposed to the rapporteur) discharge in june. the discharge was postponed for purely formal reasons. the ecsel joint undertaking, which took over artemis and eniac in mid-2014, has in the meantime provided sufficient evidence that all accounting at national agency level was transparent and with a minimum level of error. i am pleased that the second report on discharge has thus received the full support of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking (ju), focused on technological developments, is a research programme aimed at contributing to the development of a strong and globally competitive electronics industry in the eu. the report on the 2014 discharge is a document that consolidates the annual accounts of the eu for the 2014 financial year on the basis of information provided by the various institutions, organisations and bodies of the eu. the document sets out how the jus spent and implemented their budget in 2014. i voted in favour of the report, to grant discharge in respect of the jus’ 2014 budget, which also made a series of recommendations on improving future budgets and auditing project costs, making for improvements and more transparency in future budgets.
in writing. - i got held up. the accounts appear to be in order, having been audited by the court of auditors of the eu. iter is an intergovernmental organisation whose member states are, alongside the eu (euratom) members, india, japan, russia, the usa and china. the project is concerned with nuclear fusion research and is governed by an intergovernmental principle.
in writing. ‒ as the shadow rapporteur for the iter joint undertaking's discharge, i pay particular attention to this subject. iter has been through a difficult development and has experienced a number of delays and cost overruns in the past. this is why major changes were introduced in 2015 in the management of iter and of the european f4e, which represents the eu in iter. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of passengers and the number of seats available for the new passenger terminal. the deferred discharge for 2014 was conditional on the approval of the iter long-term action plan by the iter council, which took place in mid-june 2016. at the same time, significant progress has been made in many other areas. anyone who has visited the iter construction site will be impressed by the monstrosity and complexity of the project and the technological marvels that are unfolding before his eyes. i am all the more aware of the difficulty of establishing and, above all, of complying with both the budget and the work plan. iter will again stand out in the upcoming discharge process and will therefore receive special attention from me as rapporteur for the 2015 discharge.
in writing. ‒ the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy is an innovative energy initiative and research project aimed at providing a link between plasma physics and engineering and future commercial fusion-based power plants. the 2014 joint undertaking report is a document that consolidates the annual accounts of the eu for the 2014 financial year on the basis of information provided by the various institutions, organisations and bodies of the eu. the document sets out how the joint undertakings spent and implemented their budget in 2014. i voted in favour of the report to discharge the 2014 budget, which also made a series of recommendations on improving future budgets and auditing project costs, making for improvement and more transparency in future budgets.
in writing. ‒ in reaction to recently started operation to liberate the city of mosul in northern iraq from so-called isis/daesh and extremely worrying humanitarian situation in the territory, i voted in favour of this resolution. it urges the european union, united nations and the whole international community to continue to support sustainably the iraqi government with humanitarian and military assistance. the republic of iraq has the right to defend its sovereign territory and the european union should support it in the fight against isis/daesh. the long-term aim must be then the reintegration of all iraqis including all ethnic and religious displaced minorities.
the situation in northern iraq is very dramatic. on the one hand, there is, and has been for quite some time, a stable autonomous kurdish territory, and on the other hand, to the south and southwest of this territory, in the places that were the core of ancient assyria, in the predominantly sunni part of iraq, where there used to be a very diverse community, there is only chaos. the failure to agree on a new government quickly enough after the last election in iraq created a power vacuum, which the islamic state took advantage of. the disbanded army of the former iraqi regime became a rich reservoir of trained military forces. the bloody suppression of the sunni part of iraq was just another trigger. the deployed iraqi army has evacuated mosul and the central part of the country virtually without a fight. she left behind weapons, ammunition, and virtually intact government buildings and documents, as well as money in bank houses. the yazidis and christians are in a critical situation, with forced conversions, kidnappings, enslavement of women and children threatening the very existence of these communities. from a relatively advanced iraqi functioning state, the intervention of the us and its allies has managed to threaten the existence of the entire community. it is also the fault of the eu and it is high time that we took effective action, otherwise we would continue to be complicit.
in writing. - i got held up. the resolution welcomes iraq's operation against the islamic state on its territory (mosul) and condemns the violence by the islamic state. i don't think the resolution is going to help anything, but it doesn't contain anything i disagree with. that's why i'm late.
in writing. i supported the resolution in response to the launch of the operation to liberate mosul, iraq's second largest city, and many towns and villages in the so-called mosul corridor from isis control. maximum support should be provided to all forces involved in the operation to liberate mosul, namely the kurdish peshmerga, the iraqi army and the shiite militias, and appeals should be made to them for a unified and coordinated approach that takes into account the civilian population. after liberation, it must be ensured, through negotiations with the kurdistan regional government and the iraqi government, that the ethnic minorities in the region, in particular the christians (chaldeans, syrians and assyrians) and the yazidis and turkmen, are granted their legitimate rights and are integrated into the new administrative structure, thus preventing the outbreak of new conflicts.
in writing. recently, the iraqi army, backed by western and arab allies, launched a long-awaited offensive to free mosul from isis fighters. this action is part of an ongoing global effort to defeat isis in a lasting way. the european union fully supports iraq's independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty, and its right to preserve all these attributes. i fully support the resolution which also calls on all parties to the conflict to respect international humanitarian law during and after hostilities. in particular, it is necessary to avoid endangering civilians by being caught in the middle of the fighting. that is why i join the call to all parties to the conflict to open humanitarian corridors. but from my point of view, it's also important to start looking at the situation that will arise after the defeat of isis. it is necessary to prevent a vacuum from being created in the country after the fighting has ended. in this context, i consider it important to maintain full support for the current iraqi government and to step up our assistance in the reconstruction of the country.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the situation of northern iraq/mosul outlined the expected effects of the global coalition operation to liberate the mosul region from isis forces. the operation, which is expected to begin before the end of 2016 will likely generate humanitarian consequences with regards to the re-integration of ethno-religious minorities back into the communities and overall their cohesion in the region. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, which outlines standards and laws to be followed by the iraqi government as well as the international community during the process of rehabilitation and re-integration, in order to minimise the trauma and discourage another civil war. i believe that is the eu responsibility as promoter of the rule of law and human rights, to call on the un and the international community, alongside eu forces, to work with national and regional governments in iraq to oversee the reintegration of the iraqis including the displaced ethnic and religious minorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation of journalists in turkey with regard to measures taken by the turkish government after the failed military coup on 15 july this year. since then, the turkish government has arrested at least 99 journalists and writers, revoked the press credentials of at least 330 journalists and closed the offices of more than 100 media outlets, leaving over 2 300 media workers without jobs. the failed coup cannot be used to further repress legitimate and peaceful opposition and to curtail journalists’ freedom of expression. a free and pluralistic press is an essential component of any democracy and the eu must closely monitor the implications of the prolonged state of emergency.
in writing. - i got held up. the resolution calling for the conclusion of eu accession negotiations with turkey was not passed in the partial vote. the resolution ends with a condemnation of the coup attempt, a call on the turkish government to release the detained journalists, and a regret that the turkish government has stopped the publication of 150 opposition media outlets. i think that's just empty proclamations without any action, which is why i've been holding back.
in writing. i supported the resolution pointing out that after the failed coup attempt in turkey, at least 99 journalists and writers have been arrested by the turkish police, most of whom have not yet been charged. in addition, the number of media workers detained on charges believed to be related to the exercise of their right to freedom of expression reached at least 130 as of 20 october 2016. all detained journalists who are not proven to have committed a crime should be released immediately and their prosecution and detention cannot be accepted on the basis of the content of their journalistic work.
in writing. the situation of journalists and media freedom in turkey is deteriorating. even before the coup attempt, there were only a handful of independent media and journalists in turkey, and many others had already been arrested by then. after the coup, the remaining ones were imprisoned. according to reporters without borders, 89 journalists were arrested and 104 media outlets were closed during the first six weeks of the state of emergency. many journalists lost their jobs. i condemn turkey's treatment of journalists and media outlets and i condemn the recent police raids against them. these actions undermine media freedom, which is a fundamental principle of democracy. i find it completely unacceptable that these journalists are being detained and imprisoned without any charges being laid against them. i therefore call on the turkish government to respect the conditions of democracy and the rule of law and to stop discriminating against citizens in terms of freedom of expression and other fundamental rights. the situation after the failed coup must not be harshly exploited to strengthen the position of erdogan and his entourage.
in writing. ‒ on the subject of the deteriorating conditions of journalists in turkey, the draft motion for a resolution details the violations of freedom of the press, arbitrary detention of journalists, the closure or appropriation of independent media outlets, as well as the alleged torture of imprisoned journalists, all resulting from the failed coup in july 2016. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation of journalist in turkey, because turkey, a candidate for eu membership, as well as a close economic and political ally to the eu cannot be allowed to continue violating human rights and the freedom of expression of their own citizens. it is important that the eu holds turkey accountable and uses every means to ensure erdogan’s regime loosen its grip on its journalists and opposition.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the key messages included in the present resolution, and that is why i voted in favour of it. in the current security context, where a number of state and non-state actors raise asymmetric risks and use hybrid and other types of warfare, we have to be strict on the global nuclear control policy. the international agreements in this sector have to be respected and implemented. the risk is simply too high to overlook it.
in writing. ‒ in light of the deteriorating relations between nuclear-armed states such as russia and the us or pakistan and india, given russia’s threats to use nuclear weapons or to deploy them to additional areas in europe, the eu is faced with a very tense and fragile security environment. in that concerning context, the union must urgently reinforce non-proliferation, disarmament and cooperation on the peaceful use of nuclear energy, which is what this text calls for. i also share the view that the un must convene a conference in 2017 in order to negotiate legally binding instruments to prohibit the use of nuclear weapons.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report calls for a un conference to negotiate a 'legally binding instrument leading to the prohibition and total elimination of nuclear weapons'. i find that both unrealistic and dangerous. even if some nations comply with such a resolution, there are always others who will not, thus upsetting the balance of security in the world.
in writing. i supported the resolution on nuclear security and non-proliferation, which included, inter alia, deep concern about the increased nuclear threat posed by russia's stance and its deteriorating relationship with nato, including potential violations of the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty, as well as statements indicating both increased readiness to use nuclear weapons and considerations of possible deployment of nuclear weapons in other territories in europe. the reason for the heightened concern is definitely the russian military exercises simulating the deployment of nuclear weapons against poland and the deployment of iskander missile systems capable of carrying nuclear warheads in the kaliningrad region, which borders the eu member states poland and lithuania.
in writing. i consider the question of nuclear safety and non-proliferation to be one of the key challenges of modern civilization. this topic has become even more important recently in the face of the deteriorating security environment in europe. i am personally very concerned, especially by the russian attitude, which indicates its increasing willingness to use nuclear weapons in certain cases, although at this stage these are more political threats. but history has shown that such power games can have disastrous consequences. in the case of russia, these are currently mainly statements regarding increased readiness to use nuclear weapons, possible deployment of nuclear weapons to other areas in europe or the transfer of iskander missile systems to the kaliningrad region. the instability in europe and the sense of threat could lead to the proliferation of nuclear weapons as a deterrent, which we must not allow.
in writing. ‒ as of recently, there has been concern expressed about the deterioration of the security environment around the european union and beyond its neighbourhood, which could lead to the re-emergence of nuclear weapons as an active deterrent and possible proliferation among state and non-state actors. specifically, there is concern for the increased nuclear threats arising from russia, with implications for security, stability and especially in light of russia’s deteriorating relationship with nato. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, which calls on all nuclear-weapon states to take concrete measures to reduce the risk of nuclear aggression.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on european voluntary service and the promotion of volunteering, because it is necessary to highlight the importance of volunteering activities carried out by people in their free time and of their own free will, regardless of financial reward. i support the visibility of the contribution of volunteering to the revitalization and promotion of civil society and democracy. it embodies european values, including solidarity, non-discrimination and the promotion of human rights inside and outside the european union.
in writing. - i voted against it. the resolution recognises that 'volunteering is an expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility', but calls for 'time spent on voluntary activities to be co-financed by european grants' and calls on the commission to develop 'a more coordinated european policy on voluntary activities'. i think that volunteering should remain voluntary and we do not need any european policy or european subsidies for it.
‒ it is certainly appropriate to emphasise that volunteering contributes to the strengthening of active citizenship and personal human development and is an essential tool for social inclusion and cohesion, training, education and intercultural dialogue. i also supported the call for the european skills passport and europass initiatives to give more weight to voluntary work. in practical terms, the commission and the member states should consider measures to allow time spent on voluntary activities to be co-financed under european grants.
in writing. - this year the european voluntary service celebrates its 20th anniversary. in the 20 years of this project, about 100,000 volunteers have participated, which i think is a huge success. i was very happy to support the resolution calling on the member states and the eu institutions to maintain the involvement of europeans in the european voluntary service. i see volunteering as an expression of solidarity that contributes to strengthening active citizenship and to combating social exclusion, poverty, intolerance, racism, xenophobia, injustice, while also contributing to the dissemination of european values. we have seen the benefits of volunteering in the current refugee crisis, for example, when many volunteers were willing to lend a helping hand. however, for the better functioning of volunteering actions, it is also necessary to create a european framework that identifies volunteering with rights and obligations, thus facilitating mobility and recognition of volunteers' skills.
in writing. ‒ in 2016, the european voluntary service (evs) celebrated its 20th anniversary, supporting 100 000 volunteers since its inception. in europe, volunteering is an expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility that contributes to the strengthening of active citizenship and to personal human development, and that it is an essential tool for social inclusion and cohesion, as well as training, education and intercultural dialogue and an important dimension of eu values. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the evs, which encourages member states to implement a concrete validation process, as well as the creation of an eu framework, which provides volunteer work with a legal status, ensuring rights and responsibilities are protected for volunteers in the eu. i believe it is necessary to give volunteering a greater relevance and a formal status in order to encourage future generations of volunteers.
in writing. i voted against it. the resolution says that it is important to equip young people with sufficient knowledge of the eu and an understanding of how it works, including teaching them about the eu's core values. i think it's a call to indoctrinate young people with one-sided ideology. the report also 'calls on member states to encourage women to train and pursue careers in sectors where they are underrepresented'. i think governments should let people choose what jobs they want to do, and not cram people of a certain gender into jobs they don't want to do. the resolution argues that 'the unemployment rate falls significantly as the level of education attained increases and that it is therefore necessary to promote and invest in higher education opportunities for young people in the eu'. i think that's a stupid and dangerous claim that makes young people all over the eu unemployed bachelors. i also disagree with the call for member states to support young people at the beginning of their independent lives and the creation of their own families through housing allowances. i think instead of making young people dependent on benefits, it's better to reduce taxes.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the parliamentary recommendations for the third and final three-year cycle of the eu youth strategy (2016 - 2018). i am afraid, european young people still keep facing many challenges like youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. we should concentrate namely on young people with poor qualifications, neets and those with special needs, disadvantaged and lower socio-economic backgrounds such as ethnic minorities, refugees, migrants and asylum seekers. we have to invest more in accessible quality education, promoting quality traineeships and improvement of skills and competences. we cannot succeed without involving all stakeholders, especially youth organisations, recognising voluntary activities and finally promoting and investing in mobility schemes and especially in erasmus + programme. i am proud the s&d group fought hard to ensure the inclusion of young girls and young people identifying themselves as lgbti into the report. we must fight for a better recognition of the learning outcomes of skills acquired through non-formal and informal learning not only because they equip young people with the right set of competences and knowledge, but also because they contribute to the personal development and growth of proactive, responsible and open-minded citizens.
in writing. ‒ youth policies, although not the exclusive competence of the eu, are the backbone of the future generation. it is vital that the proper implementation of youth policies be made and that youth are included in the decision-making process at all levels so that decisions are targeted for the next generations. the eu youth strategy aims at doing just that. i decided however to abstain from voting on the report on the assessment of the eu youth strategy because, although i support the report’s initiative, calling for improvements in efforts to integrate eu youth, i found some of the wording in the report dubious, so i could not vote in favour.
in writing. i supported the report which deals with how the cap can improve job creation in rural areas, even though it could contain more forward-looking perspectives. rural areas account for 77% of the european union's territory, and i therefore consider it important to develop them dynamically and to reduce the gap in employment opportunities between urban and rural areas. the report highlights challenges in tackling rural labour supply issues, such as low wages and population decline, and looks at the potential for improving job creation.
in writing. rural areas form a substantial part of the eu's territory. for many years, more than 50% of the eu population has lived in cities. after the second world war, there was a decline in the agricultural and forestry workforce, and in the last 10 years, it has been a quarter of jobs. some rural areas have become virtually depopulated, while agriculture is the key to the appearance of a substantial part of the union's territory. small and medium-sized settlements are growing in suburban areas, where there are usually few job opportunities but where the necessary services are relatively available. in more remote areas, it is difficult to provide these services. the age structure of those running farms is also consistent with this. the european commission recommends redirecting cap direct payments towards small farmers. national governments often also provide support from their national budgets or regional funds. the commission considers that environmental legislation should be simple and understandable and easy to implement. it offers support to producers and farmers who grow local varieties and breed local breeds to develop employment opportunities. it is interesting that the commission is not aware of the dangers of adopting ceta, ttip and the mercosur community agreements. the recommendation to promote tourism-related services seems realistic. curiously, i see the promotion of the creation of specialized enterprises with more than 200 hives, this will not solve the lack of beehives.
in writing. i supported the report on 'how can the cap improve job creation in rural areas?', in particular because of the following points: whereas the commission, in its own impact assessment on the consequences of ttip, finds that predominantly rural areas, which are focused on specific activities and have limited alternatives, are more vulnerable; whereas rural areas and rural jobs are threatened by the shift away from traditional agricultural models that this agreement will bring; whereas trade agreements currently under negotiation, such as the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) and the eu-mercosur free trade agreement, pose a threat to job creation and the creation of conditions to support livelihoods in agriculture; and whereas the european parliament is concerned about the potential impact of agreements under negotiation, such as the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), the comprehensive economic and trade cooperation agreement (ceta) with canada and the eu-mercosur free trade agreement, on agriculture. this report shows that trade agreements such as ttip and ceta can be a complete disaster for european agriculture, and this report was adopted just days before ceta was signed.
in writing. i voted against it. the resolution 'requires the promotion of active measures and policies that highlight the positive role of migration in boosting economic growth and promoting social cohesion in rural areas'. this is actually a call for the eu to use some advertising to convince people that migration has a positive impact on rural cohesion. i don't agree with that kind of challenge. the resolution also 'calls on the relevant national, regional and local authorities to promote the participation of women in the leader lags and the development of local partnerships and to ensure gender balance in their governing boards'. the report is simply a disconnected praise of bureaucracy and subsidy projects in agriculture. i, on the other hand, believe that we will not help agriculture by pushing for the introduction of equal numbers of women and men on the boards of subsidy projects.
in writing. ‒ although agriculture and the agri-food sector account for 6% of the european union's gdp, the demand for employment in this sector is steadily declining. in many european countries, there is a long-term outflow of labour from the agricultural sector and farmers' incomes are constantly falling. therefore, a comprehensive strategy for overall generational renewal in agriculture is needed. it is necessary to make full use of all the possibilities offered by the cap to support young and beginning farmers and to promote these more effectively. it is also necessary to create opportunities for young farmers, for example in terms of access to land. special attention should be paid to the involvement of women.
in writing. ‒ for a long time, eu rural areas have been suffering from high unemployment rates and depopulation. the report seeks to find out what are the options and possibilities that the common agricultural policy can offer to improve the situation in rural areas, particularly for farmers. european rural development is one of the main tools to help to make rural areas more attractive for living there. although the subject matter is pertinent, i voted to reject the report based on the very poor quality of content, which i felt lacked much added value with regards to proposing viable solutions to improve the unemployment situation in rural areas.
i also want to agree with my predecessors that it is the fragmentation of the legal framework of the 28 member states that really discourages people from using these services. given their general complexity, people do indeed need more information to have confidence in using retail financial services. at the level of the european institutions, it is precisely this information component of monitoring world developments and addressing some pressing issues, such as the determination of the jurisdiction of the court to decide on any disputes arising from these legal relationships, that should be strengthened. there are a lot of open moments. i want to support the commission in the approach it has put forward. it seems reasonable to me. we should now monitor global developments and propose a corresponding legal framework for the use of these services.
i disagree with my foreword and some of my colleagues. i believe that the eu must guarantee its citizens a sense of security, that we cannot give up this fundamental value. i agree with the rapporteur and with my political group that the security of defence policy is one of the fundamental tasks of the eu, which is perhaps not quite clearly defined in primary law, but we should try to do that. i see these forces and components as complementary to what nato is doing, and it is our responsibility not only to involve the ep, as has been discussed here, in the formulation of this policy, but above all to call on the eu member states to take responsibility, because they should at least provide the financial framework that many countries have not been able to meet in the long term. my country doesn't even spend two percent on defense, and i see that as our debt to the common defense. the eu must not give up on it.
i want to promote the importance of water transport also in relation to the specific topic of the danube-odra-labe transport link. it's one of the segments that remains intact. it is a treasure for the czech republic, poland and the countries that are connected to this waterway. i think we should also look at these projects from a european perspective and motivate these countries to make this transport link happen. i've only been talking about one part of that water transport and its importance in terms of the economy, but it's not just important in terms of the economic outcomes. it is also important for our security, because it allows for greater transport connectivity and, secondly, it allows, for example, to bring water to areas where it is already scarce. it is a very broad problem and i thank the rapporteur and his deputies for presenting this report.
i covered personal water transport last year in the cont report. here, the european court of auditors has found that there is no very positive long-term growth in both freight and passenger water transport because many countries are only investing money in partial repairs to some ports but are not trying to expand the navigability of rivers and streams. it should be noted that drought is also a major problem in domestic shipping. many rivers are not navigable all year round, and this can lead to huge economic problems for the boatmen and the various groups involved in the industry. i would therefore like to invite the commission to address this problem in its strategy in a longer term.
europe is facing a whole range of fraud related to the reversal of speedometers. is there anything we can do about it? i think it definitely is. belgium and the netherlands have already introduced a car pass system to combat fraud effectively. both countries can thus serve as an inspiration to other countries. unfortunately, even national measures cannot prevent the overrun of tachometers on cars imported from another country. that's why i've been fighting for the third year for car pass systems for the whole eu. the negative consequences of tachometer fraud are far-reaching, and poor consumers are the ones who suffer the most. they buy a car at a price that does not correspond to its true value. i ask you, commissioner, how long will we stand by and watch these practices?
i would like to return to the problem of the interconnection of water transport within the european region of central europe, namely the danube-odra-labe canal. this is also mentioned in one of the reports we are voting on tomorrow, and i not only support this waterway for a long time, but i would also like to call on the eu institutions to give this project their full support, because it is not only in the interests of the czech republic, poland or germany, if the link is to be extended to labe, but also of slovakia and, of course, austria and hungary. in my opinion, it's also a very strategic investment in our security. it will bring alpine water, connect the regions in terms of water transport. it has its undeniable costs, and we have to admit that, even in the environmental sphere. i would like to support this project, however, because i see it as a strategic investment in our common future.
mr president, the council, commission and parliament have put together new rules for macroeconomic and fiscal coordination within the european union. i believe these are not the most elegant rules but they are good ones. it is quite important to follow the rules for the time being, instead of trying to find different exemptions, and to explore all possibilities to use the exemptions and flexibility. they do not matter as much as the high level of debt and the deficit because they are, after all, creating great pressure on national budgets, leading to cuts in expenditure, including social expenditure, and an increase in taxation that is harming the economy and increasing unemployment. i believe that, for the time being, it is difficult to argue that an increase in budget deficits will increase economic growth, unlike the good and responsible governance that will create more certainty for economic agents. last, but not least, let me talk a little about unemployment. looking at the recent statistics, i can see that five member states have unemployment below 5%, 12 below 7%, and still seven above 10%. among all the groups – you can see small states, big states, eurozone members and non-eurozone members, rich and poor – it shows that this is not a matter of a european economic and social model, but is a matter of responsible and good economic policies. we have a lot of inspiration around us and we should just follow them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i am convinced we, as the eu, need to enhance our cooperation with ukraine, especially in this period. there is a practical point of having better cooperation and exchange of information between ukraine and europol. but above that, there is a political and strategic dimension to be understood. ukraine has been receiving mixed messages from our side lately and we need to reassure them on our partnership.
in writing. ‒ ukraine is a major player in the eastern partnership, and i therefore see the need to strengthen cooperation with it and focus more firmly on the fight against crime. i supported the proposal for an operational and strategic agreement between europol and ukraine, as it would allow the exchange of classified information, including personal data, for the purpose of preventing crime. the exchange will cover expertise, general situational reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigations and information on methods. the agreement also includes participation in training and the provision of advice and support in specific cases of criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain from voting on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion of an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and the european police office (europol). although i'm normally in favor of greater cooperation between law enforcement agencies, i'm not entirely sure that the ukrainian side is the one that deserves our trust. ukraine has a wide range of problems, including corruption at the highest levels of government, including the police. moreover, i do not think that the data received by the european side would necessarily be completely true, because they could fulfill orders from the ukrainian government.
‒ i consider ensuring security to be one of the eu's main tasks. ukraine is an important partner for the eu in the field of security and the fight against crime. if europol cooperates effectively with other non-eu countries, its ability to prevent criminal activity on our territory will be enhanced. i believe that cooperation with ukraine will increase the chances of detecting drug and economic crime, human trafficking and smuggling and should also focus on fighting mobile (nomadic) criminal groups. it is important that both sides coordinate their strategies and action plans. this mutually beneficial agreement will be based in particular on the sharing of information to enable both member states and ukraine to prevent organised crime, terrorism and other forms of international crime.
in writing. i was very pleased to vote in favour of the conclusion of the strategic and operational cooperation agreement between ukraine and europol. the eu, its member states and ukraine will be able to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of transnational crime much more effectively as a result of the agreement. in the future, cooperation will provide for the exchange of expertise, strategic analysis, information sharing on investigative procedures or prevention methods. the partnership will also provide support in the investigation of specific criminal cases. the operational nature of the agreement will also allow the two partners to share personal data, the exchange of which will significantly increase the success rate of their cooperation. i would like to recall that the conclusion of the agreement between ukraine and europol is also one of the many conditions for visa liberalisation between the eu and ukraine. ukraine has met its obligations. i hope that the vote on visa liberalization will take place very soon. as a shadow rapporteur on the successful approval of the cooperation agreement between ukraine and eurojust, i would like to re-emphasise the importance of eu cooperation with ukraine. the enhanced security partnership is another strong signal of the gradual convergence of the two sides in many other areas as well.
in writing. i supported today the european parliament's consent to the draft council decision approving the conclusion of the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between ukraine and europol, as i believe there is a real need for closer cooperation between the police forces of the eu member states and ukraine, in particular in the fight against organised crime (drugs, economic crime) and terrorism. i also consider the conclusion of this agreement to be an important element in eu-ukraine relations, especially in view of the positive developments so far towards the introduction of visa-free travel between the eu and ukraine.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol outlines the mutual benefits of such an agreement, which would see the intensification of cooperation against organised crime, terrorism, as well as other forms of crime affecting both eu member states and ukraine. the proposal aims to accomplish this through the exchange of operational, strategic and technical information, including personal data and classified information. more than ever, we need to work together to combat transnational and digital crime, and this can only be done through intensive cooperation between the eu and third countries. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. i personally consider europol to be one of the most important agencies for ensuring security in europe. in today's connected europe, it is impossible for data on dangerous or potentially dangerous persons not to work. i therefore fully support this agreement, as cooperation with ukraine will give europol a more comprehensive and complete picture of crime in europe, allowing it to more quickly identify and assess immediate threats as well as longer-term trends in all areas of crime. better cooperation between the police authorities of ukraine and europol should also lead to the creation of better intelligence documents, which will help to protect the security of european citizens more effectively and to fight terrorism more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of jean-francois jalkh, who faces two cases of litigation. the first case relates an offence of public incitement of discrimination, hatred and violence, by where mr jalkh, the publishing editor of the national front´s website, posted the interview by where jean-marie le pen suggested to “put them all in the oven together next time”, when referencing the jewish people. the second case relates public incitement to discrimination, based on statements jalkh published in the national front´s “handbook for front national local councillors”, encouraging fn candidates, if elected, to give priority to french people when allocating social housing. as both charges are unrelated to mr. jalkh’s work in the ep and do not reflect the opinions of a member of the ep, i believe that his immunity should be waived.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of jean-francois jalkh, who faces two cases of litigation. the first case relates an offence of public incitement of discrimination, hatred and violence, by where mr. jalkh, the publishing editor of the national front´s website, posted the interview by where jean-marie le pen suggested to “put them all in the oven together next time”, when referencing the jewish people. the second case relates public incitement to discrimination, based on statements jalkh published in the national front’s “handbook for front national local councillors”, encouraging fn candidates, if elected, to give priority to french people when allocating social housing. as both charges are unrelated to mr. jalkh’s work in the ep and do not reflect the opinions of a member of the ep, i believe that his immunity should be waived.
in writing. - i have supported a report aimed at ensuring the sustainable exploitation of cod stocks, whose stocks need to be restored and maintained at a level that will provide maximum sustainable yield. this is crucial from an environmental point of view, as the new regulation abolished the fishing effort regime, or the number of days a fishing vessel can spend at sea. in practice, this means that vessels with a very limited number of days no longer need to fish close to the coast, where the juvenile fish population is predominantly concentrated. this is an important measure to conserve fish stocks and i believe it is another step towards the stability of the marine biological environment and the prevention of further climate change. on the other hand, the decision to abolish the fishing effort regime will allow fishermen greater flexibility. it will enable vessels to no longer be forced to fish close to shore or in areas with a lower cod stock. in the present case, parliament has been engaged in a long-running dispute with the council over the choice of legal basis. last year, the court of justice ruled in favour of parliament and declared council regulations invalid. the social democrats have done an excellent job of negotiating to get this amendment of the regulation passed as soon as possible. i welcome the fact that we have succeeded in providing fishermen with greater legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ as a result of the serious depletion of four of europe’s cod stocks in the early 2000s, the eu imposed strict rules on the fishing industry through a recovery plan in 2004. the new regulation amends and updates the existing regulation of 2004 and 2008, in the aim countering problems currently existing in the plan, as well as to align the provisions of the regulation with the treaty of lisbon. i voted in favour of the amendments to the regulation because it is important the eu regularly revises and evaluates its regulatory measures to protect europe against any further depletion of one of the its most important resources.
in writing. ‒ the panama papers revelations showed once more how essential it is to ensure proper exchange of information on bank data. with these new rules, tax authorities with anti-money laundering responsibilities in any eu country will have to automatically share information such as bank account balances, interest income and dividends with their counterparts in other member states. i believe automaticity is the only way this sharing of information can work. money laundering, terrorist financing, organised crime and tax evasion are all interlinked and recognise no borders, which is why tax authorities need to have equal access to anti-money-laundering information in all member states.
in writing. i was very pleased to support the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards access to information by tax authorities for the purpose of combating money laundering, as the role of bank accounts and companies established in tax havens and non-cooperative jurisdictions has proven to be a common denominator in the huge scale of generally exposed and created operations that hide tax fraud, capital flight and money laundering practices. this should in itself trigger political and diplomatic action to eliminate offshore centres at the global level, but unfortunately the council has been sitting idly by for too long. the link between tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering that has been identified calls for full use to be made of the synergies that result from domestic, union and international cooperation between the various authorities involved in combating these crimes and offences. issues such as the transparency of beneficial ownership or the extent to which entities, such as those from the legal professions, are covered by the anti-money laundering framework in third countries are essential to enhance the ability of the union institutions to tackle tax evasion and money laundering.
in writing. i supported the report adopted under the consultation procedure, which aims to improve the fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation is internationally recognised as the most effective tool in the effort to achieve international tax transparency. the report confirms that there are strong reasons for further extending administrative cooperation between tax authorities to cover beneficial ownership information and that automatic exchange of beneficial ownership information can be integrated into the binding tax transparency framework already in place in the eu. the reality of these considerations is demonstrated by the fact that all member states are already participating in a pilot project on the exchange of information on beneficial ownership of companies and trusts. at the same time, however, only well-functioning tax authorities will use effectively acquired information to improve tax collection.
in writing. ‒ the automatic and mandatory exchange of anti-money laundering information between tax authorities is a new step forward in the fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering in the eu. the main objective of this initiative is to enable tax authorities to consistently access the information for the performance of their duties in monitoring the proper application of the directive on administrative cooperation by financial institutions. i consider this to be a crucial step to improve the identification of money-laundering, corruption, terrorist financing and other criminal activities. i firmly believe tax authorities should also have access to such information in order to maximise their capacity to tackle tax evasion and avoidance through the commission’s directive on administrative cooperation. i would like to congratulate s&d rapporteur, emmanuel maurel, on passing the main objective of making the exchange of anti-money-laundering information between tax authorities mandatory and automatic with the support of a wide majority of political groups.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for tax authorities to access anti-money-laundering information has been initiated through the introduction of a new measure. i voted in favour of the proposal, which falls in line with the commission’s agenda against tax evasion and avoidance, with a view to delivering fairer and more effective taxation in the eu. as a result of recent media leaks such as the panama leaks, the exposure of large-scale concealment of offshore funds proves that further measures still need to be taken to reinforce eu and international transparency initiatives. i believe that by providing greater access to information to tax authorities, effective identification of tax evasion can be achieved.
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. these cases are nothing more than the result of our bad tax policy and lack of transparency in the tax field. they are often linked to tax evasion, tax avoidance and, last but not least, to the financing of terrorism and organised crime. i am convinced that these illegal activities are not only proof of the eu's lack of action on tax issues, but also an impetus for our further action. the main problem i see is the poor access to and exchange of information between the tax authorities of the member states. all tax authorities in the eu must have quick and easy access to all anti-money laundering information and relevant documents. with a single market, common borders and interconnected financial systems, it is inconceivable that there is no direct access to this information within the eu. only then can we prevent similar scandals from happening again and ensure more transparent and efficient taxation in the eu.
i have supported this report because i too consider it important that monetary and price stability be maintained. there are undoubtedly a number of economic terms and institutions that the ecb directly supervises in its activities, and rightly so. on the other hand, i would simply urge the ecb not to become a political body, because that would undoubtedly be to the detriment of the entire monetary and fiscal category that it is supposed to be watching. she should maintain strict professionalism, independence, impartiality, but at the same time not get involved in those political processes, because it's to her detriment. i have a feeling she hasn't avoided that risk much lately. price stability, inflationary developments, the avoidance of deflationary risks and even quantitative easing, which is already having an effect, i can appreciate that, but i would like the ecb not to be a political institution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am of the view that it draws attention to important points such as the possible negative effects of unconventional monetary policy measures and negative interest rates, which may punish savers and pensions funds. although the growth in the euro area remains low due to high public and private debt growth, this report also stresses that ecb operations show a positive impact on lending to the real economy.
in writing. i could not support the european parliament resolution of 22 november 2016 on the annual report of the european central bank for 2015. the text does state that the euro area continues to be plagued by high unemployment, excessively low inflation and high macroeconomic imbalances, accompanied by current account imbalances, and that the euro area is also facing very low productivity growth, which is the result of low investment (10 percentage points below pre-crisis levels), failed structural reforms and weak domestic demand, but fails to identify the culprit. in my view, this is clearly the policy of the european central bank, and in particular of european governments, which have blindly followed the policy of austerity to cut the very bottom of economic growth. i therefore proposed with my gue/ngl colleagues that the european parliament should insist that the ecb be democratically accountable for its decisions and that its decisions be subject to coherent democratic scrutiny. but this demand was flagrantly ignored.
in writing. i supported the report which is adopted annually and which comments on the ecb's activities. it has thus far performed well in its role of safeguarding the monetary stability of the euro area and contributing to the financial stability of the euro area. the report rightly points out, among other things, the problem of the poor availability of credit to smes in some member states, which could lead to further distortions of competition if the ecb were to buy large corporate bonds on the capital market. the report also sends an important political signal by supporting the gradual completion and full implementation of the banking union. however, i would stress that the discussion of this report must not lead to an attempt to interfere politically in the decision-making of the central bank.
in writing. ‒ the ecb annual report describes the activities of the european system of central banks and reports on the eurosystems’s monetary policy of the previous year. this year’s report stresses that although the ecb’s operations show a positive impact regarding assisting in real economic growth in the euro area, high public and private debt and the insufficient implementation of growth-enhancing reforms remain at the heart of the ecb’s set-backs. i voted in favour of the draft report for 2015, as it has proven to be an important mechanisms in evaluating the ecb’s performance and activities, providing foresight as well as hindsight into both the positive and negative policies and practices of the bank, which, in the case of negative practices, if left unchecked, can have disastrous effects on the eu economy.
in writing. ‒ the annual report of the european central bank addresses the economic situation in the eu and expresses the european parliament's position on this issue. i decided to support the report because i agree with the vast majority of the recommendations put forward. i think that the clear economic priorities of the eu should be to ensure a sufficiently resilient euro area and an intact single market. it is clear that the euro area is currently facing a problem of high unemployment, low inflation and macroeconomic imbalances. i agree that a strong fiscal policy and socially balanced structural reforms, in particular, will help to improve this situation, ensuring that the overall productivity of the european economy is increased.
as far as retail financial services are concerned, i see one very significant risk here, and that is the risk of lack of information and lack of confidence of consumers or clients of financial services in these services. we must overcome this mistrust. i have supported this report because i think it also very accurately describes the efforts of the european commission and its proposals to deal with the difficulties in this key sector or one of the key sectors of the banking sector. we have to overcome the fragmentation of financial services that is today due to the fragmentation of the legal order. 28 of the rules of law is indeed a very fundamental problem, for example, for the resolution of crossborder disputes or for the determination of jurisdiction, for example, of courts for the resolution of disputes arising from those legal relationships. there are a lot of difficult moments. the difficulty of the problem, the lack of information, is something we should be addressing, we should be monitoring world developments, but i think the commission is not going to be blind to this, which is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it removes unnecessary obstacles for consumers and businesses and stimulates finance for sustainable and green investments. i am also glad that it encourages retail financial service providers to finance projects associated with innovation and the environment. i believe that unlocking the full potential of retail financial services has a key importance for the dynamics of our internal market.
in writing. i supported the report, which correctly mentions the benefits of digitalisation for retail investors, such as easier product comparability, better and easier access to cross-border investments, fairer competition between providers, and faster and easier registration and payment processes and lower transaction costs. in addition, it points to the need to strengthen consumer confidence in financial services, in particular with regard to financial products with high exchange rate risks. the commission should contribute to improving financial literacy and information in order to enable consumers to make informed decisions, increase the level of transparency of those products and remove barriers to switching.
in writing. the retail financial services market has been significantly affected by the process of digitalisation. the potential to create and improve existing financial products and to meet consumer needs has been increased. at the same time, however, there was a need to increase their protection and trust. i voted for this green paper because, in addition to encouraging market development, the document contains several very important points. the first is to combat discrimination and financial harm to citizens. it is unacceptable that consumers do not enjoy the same legal protection throughout the union or are not provided with accessible and independent advice. the second is to raise awareness and improve citizens' access to financial education. thirdly, the protection of consumer data of both financial and non-financial nature, which should only be used in accordance with the applicable legislation. i have called on the other relevant institutions to monitor the situation in the retail financial services market on a regular basis. i also voted for the commission to put in place a framework for simple, transferable and, in particular, secure financial products and to focus on the problem of inappropriate sales of financial products and services. as europe continues to lack sustainable and green investment, i am very pleased, as vice-chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, that the green paper encourages a much more active approach to seeking and using capital markets for this type of investment.
in writing. i am pleased that the green paper on retail financial services was approved today. it focuses on cross-border trade, which should work to the benefit of all eu citizens, no matter where they live. the retail financial services market will only be viable if it is fair and trustworthy. it is therefore important to maintain a level playing field and to strengthen consumer confidence in the basic service. their financial literacy and awareness should also be improved. we must not forget that consumers enjoy the same legal protection throughout the eu. smes are the backbone of the european economy and the engine of employment, and the green paper therefore focuses on their specific characteristics. i believe that effective regulation of retail financial services will contribute to the creation of a single european market.
in writing. i supported the green paper on retail financial services because it specifically addresses a number of challenges for the further development of the retail financial services market at eu level. i consider it essential that the development of this market includes the establishment and enforcement of a legal framework that ensures the necessary protection of consumers. i also think it is important to stress that many services are moving online and that it is therefore important to ensure that no one is excluded. access to these services must also be provided by non-digital means in order to avoid financial exclusion. this includes the use of atms access to cash through atms is a basic public service which must be provided to consumers without any discriminatory or unfair practices and which must not be excessively costly.
in writing. ‒ the green paper on retail financial services identifies and aims to remove existing barriers in market retail finance in order to unlock its full potential, leading to more and better consumer choices, without compromising the existing level of consumer protection. consumer and businesses’ trust in the financial sector has lagged behind since the financial crisis of 2008. i voted in favour of the proposed paper, as i believe that in order to restore consumer and business trust in the financial sector, there needs to be an initiative to create a regulatory environment within eu legislation that is more conducive to transparency, growth and innovation, elements which are all outlined in the paper.
i read on a website today that when the uk leaves the eu, 80% of all defence spending in the north atlantic alliance will be paid by non-eu member states, especially the us, and only 20% will be paid by european members. i think that pretty much shows the framework we're in. i think that to discuss the common european defence here is not realistic. what is needed, and it is certainly good to support, is an appeal for increased defence spending by those states which do not comply with it, but to send a signal at a time when a new us administration is taking office that the eu is perhaps considering some kind of defence capacity of its own is unreasonable. we should be making clear right now that we stand by nato as the fundamental and essential pillar of security for both europe and the eu member states.
‒ the security situation in the european union has become less predictable and stable. the eu must take appropriate measures to achieve maximum controls at its external borders. only by increasing investment in defence will it be possible to respond fully to the concerns of eu citizens stemming from a lack of confidence in the union's ability to act in this area. i voted for the report on the european defence union because it represents a step towards more systematic military cooperation between member states. the main recommendation is to increase member states' defence spending to 2% of their gdp. the eu's combat groups also need to be adapted and the arms industry needs to be further developed. all of this in full compliance with nato.
in writing. the urmas paet report as a whole is a call for the building of a joint intervention army of eu countries. we shall find it difficult to find in it a call for a radical solution (i.e. the elimination) to weapons of mass destruction at european and world level. the european defence agency is to play a major role in preparing eu states for aggression against third countries, according to the report. it's absurd that russia is considered a major threat alongside the islamic state. the proposals aim, in addition to a significant increase in national military spending, at specialising the armies of individual countries and at pooling joint purchases and maintaining forces and equipment to ensure compatibility. the european parliament is invited to set up a new committee on security and defence, with the creation of a joint military industrial and technological complex as a background. the proposal also requires that part of the expenditure for operations in this area be reimbursed from the eu budget. although the proposal in many places lays claim to nato as the basis for collective defence in europe, it calls for the acceleration of the creation of forces for common security and defence policy missions. since there are no references to territorial defence in the report, but the whole defence strategy is clearly geared towards intervention outside the eu, i am forced to reject the report in its entirety. defence and security cannot be based on preparing for interventions outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that we live in a world that raises new security questions and that it is our duty as directly elected representatives to respond to them. but i fear that a common european army would be a step in the wrong direction if it were merely a supplement to nato, which would not work anyway. given that the eu combatant force, which reached full operational capability in 2007 and whose mission is to engage in military action of a humanitarian, peaceful and peace-building nature, has not yet been used for procedural, financial and political reasons, despite the opportunity and the need to do so, we see that the eu is unable to agree to even a small number of combat units and now wants to build a common european army. i was somewhat struck by the fact that the european parliament considers that, with the growing integration of internal and external security, it is essential that the common security and foreign policy go beyond the resolution of external crises, to provide for a common security and defence and to enable the union to be involved in all phases of crises and conflicts using the full range of instruments at its disposal, as i personally see in this a call to arms that should be alien to the european peace project. i voted against it.
in writing. i supported the report on the european defence union because i believe that, in view of the risks and threats that exist in europe, a european defence union should be created, especially in view of the continuing deterioration of the security situation on the borders of the european union, especially in the eastern and southern neighbourhoods. i am therefore pleased that this report has been discussed and has received clear support. i believe that a european defence union should be based on regular joint security threat assessments by member states, but at the same time flexible enough to address the individual security challenges and needs of member states. all available instruments, including the involvement of the european budget, should be used to strengthen european cooperation between member states in the field of defence, which i consider to be a priority agenda for today (including structured cooperation based on the principle of voluntary participation).
in writing. security is the number one issue in europe today. following the conclusions of the bratislava summit, this report supports the idea of creating a european defence union, so that europe can respond quickly and effectively to threats and protect the interests of its citizens with sufficient vigour. this report supports the establishment of permanent structured cooperation between eu countries in the field of defence, supports the creation of an eu operations centre, supports increased support for the defence industry. at the same time, member states should commit to spending at least 2% of gdp on defence. i am convinced of the need to confront the growing threat of terrorism and the overall deteriorating security situation in europe and its environs. we can't ignore the geopolitical developments. the creation of a european defence union is, in my view, the right step, although its implementation and final form will certainly be the subject of far-reaching debate.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's own-initiative report on the european defence union, drawn up by the former estonian foreign minister urmas paet. i am convinced that security and defence are precisely the common tasks that citizens expect from the european union. it is also the area most sensitive to the influence of many factors on member states. the current security threats in europe's neighbourhood therefore make it all the more necessary to address the issue of common defence. the possible weakening of nato due to the change of priorities by the new us administration also encourages us to think more about europe's military capabilities and budgets (the target is a level of 2% of gdp for defence spending). the legal basis for the defence union is provided by the lisbon treaty, with the possibility of permanent structured cooperation and funds which have not yet been fully used. the resolution recalls most aspects of defence policy, from the institutional framework, through enhancing the interoperability of the armed forces, to the previously marginal but now important elements such as defence against cyber attacks. it also does not forget the key role of nato, although it works with the idea that europe will have to look after itself more on its own. the resolution makes a clear call for strengthening mutual defence and overall solidarity in the event of an attack.
in writing. - this report comes from the subcommittee on defense and security, of which i am vice-chair. it defines the substance, the legal context and the future steps towards the progressive establishment of a european defence union. i support that idea. i am convinced that they will significantly strengthen europe's ability to promote security within and beyond its borders. taking greater responsibility for our own security is essential in the face of the new global challenges that surround us. the eu's strategic independence requires a range of political instruments as well as a strong and modern military capability. the imperative is to create a framework for a european defence union in full association with nato. it must lead to more effective cooperation, fair burden-sharing and a meaningful division of labour between nato and the eu. a defense union doesn't happen overnight. i consider the most important immediate steps in this direction to be the launch of the proper process of the white paper on security and defence, the establishment of a permanent council of defence ministers and the review of the athena mechanism so that eu missions are financed by the union from common resources. member states should establish multinational forces within the framework of permanent structured cooperation (pesco) which will be available for the purposes of the csdp to maintain peace, prevent conflict and strengthen international security. the level of defence spending should reach 2% of gdp, of which 20% of the budget is for equipment. a permanent headquarters for the command and control of csdp military operations should be established.
in writing. i supported today's european parliament report on the european defence union, as i believe that in the current situation, there is a need to continue working on the project of a common european defence, moving towards a situation where the eu will contribute much more to world security and strengthen its capabilities in terms of greater accessibility of its forces, but also in terms of cooperation in science and research. if these efforts are, as has been rightly emphasized, fully compatible with nato, they will not weaken nato but, on the contrary, strengthen it.
in writing. ‒ as of recent, the eu has committed to establishing a european defence dimension. this recent development, after years of indecision, is the result of the growing instability and threats both from outside and within the eu borders. i voted in favour of the report on the edu, which will produce the early steps toward a military union. i strongly believe that 2016 was a trying year for europe and it is now time that the eu commits itself to developing the competences required to autonomously defend its territory and those surrounding it from threats such as illegal migratory flows, terrorism and human smuggling, among other nefarious threats.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because i am convinced that the european union needs a common approach to defence policy. however, the main role and responsibility in this area rests with the governments of the member states. i appreciate the fact that the european parliament is trying to put pressure on them and is calling on them to stick to a level of defence spending of 2% of gdp. i think we should focus in the near future on a revision of the cfsp, which will be based on better financing and better coordination between member states. i personally also think it is important to improve our cooperation with nato, which should continue to be seen as a major pillar of collective security. i am convinced that at the present time there is not enough determination and will among the states to see the creation of a european army in the near future.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i am in favour of boosting the possibilities of using the waterways in europe. i am of the view that the potential of europe’s waterborne transport can be further exploit and can play a more important role in the mobility of eu citizens. it stands for a more ecological and safe means of transport compared to traveling by roads.
in writing. on 22 november 2016, the ep plenary voted to use the potential of passenger water transport. passenger water transport plays a crucial role in the efforts to achieve a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector. a large number of europeans commuting to work travel by road, causing congestion, congestion and delays on europe's urban roads. better use of available passenger water transport capacity could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services in general. although i see the potential in water transport, i could not support a report on this subject. in my opinion, the report is very low profile, without any critical approach to politics. the report does not distinguish between small regular ferries, which play a key role in the sustainability of public transport as an alternative to citizens' daily commuting, and large ferries for the purpose of mass tourism. the report also does not call for alternative strategic analyses. last but not least, the report contains several controversial topics, such as the development of sea routes or the promotion of liquefied natural gas (lng). for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ waterborne passenger transport is an environmentally and consumer friendly transport mode, and a vital service for tourists and commuters in remote and coastal areas. i firmly believe further measures can and should be taken to promote this mode of transport which can have a positive effect on economic development along coastal areas, while also relieving congestion on land. i am pleased that the report makes recommendations to improve ferry, barge and cruise services for passengers, including proper integration of waterborne passenger transport into existing public transport networks and improving integrated ticketing. our group stressed an emphasis on safety and security, with a focus on developing environmentally friendly services, services for people with limited mobility, and the promotion for tourism in addition to commuters. i think the use of existing eu funding efficiently contributes to developing further the inland and coastal waterborne transport routes to benefit both tourists and commuters.
in writing. ‒ the today i supported the report on unlocking the potential of passenger water transport, which aims to simplify and improve common rules for the safety of passenger ships in eu waters in order to increase safety and competition. the report promotes not only quality of service but also passenger rights and unhindered accessibility in passenger water transport, including sea ferries, inland ferries, boats and excursion boats. it also supports the development of sustainable tourism, for example in the area of overcoming seasonal fluctuations, especially in remote and peripheral regions of the union such as coastal, island, lake and rural regions. better use of available passenger water transport capacity could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions in road transport, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services in general.
in writing. ‒ although waterborne passenger transport is essential for the connectivity of certain european regions, very little attention is devoted to it in eu transport policies, resulting in a lack of statistics, investment and integration within the transport chain as a whole. the report, which i supported, advises the eu to work towards the establishment of a single area for waterborne passenger transport with the aim to simplify administrative procedures in cross-border passenger shipping and overall to offer a better quality of services.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i agree with the tools and procedures it highlights. it underlines the key role of official development assistance (oda) in achieving the objectives set out in the 2030 agenda. it emphasises adequate financing of development policy and the efficient use of public and private resources. the private sector has significant potential to achieve the sustainable development goals, in particular in the areas of respect for human rights, social inclusion and sustainability of projects.
in writing. ‒ the eu has a long-term commitment to improving aid and development effectiveness through development cooperation. that's why i voted in favour of increasing the efficiency of development aid. official development assistance plays an important role in combating poverty, reducing inequalities, promoting development, in particular for least developed countries, and promoting access for the most disadvantaged and vulnerable groups to quality public services, education and healthcare. more flexible and predictable development aid is a way to reduce illicit financial flows, to promote cooperation in order to increase the transparency of tax regimes and financial flows more generally. the key role in this regard will certainly be played by multinational companies and financial institutions, which must be aware of their responsibilities in this area. it is now up to the parliaments of recipient countries to adopt national development aid policies, thus improving the accountability of both donor and recipient governments, strengthening public financial management and the ability to raise funds, streamlining tax systems and improving the conditions for obtaining budget support, and in the long term reducing their dependence on aid.
in writing. the report rightly notes that the effectiveness of development finance should be judged on the basis of its concrete results and its contribution to development policy as a whole. it is clear that sufficient funds are a prerequisite for effective development cooperation, but most oda providers have not met their commitment to provide 0.7% of their gni for development aid by 2015. the eu and its member states should fulfil their long-term commitment to allocate 0.7% of gni to aid in order to increase their development assistance, including within the eu budget and the european development fund (edf). in order to achieve the resilience of developing countries, it is important to promote the participation of all member states in the addis ababa tax initiative with a view to doubling technical assistance by 2020 and strengthening the tax capacity of partner developing countries.
in writing. ‒ the current refugee crisis has made it quite clear that the european union cannot afford to remain silent on conflicts that are in many cases triggered by poverty. walls don't always work as effectively as we'd like. on the other hand, i am well aware that the budgets of developed countries are severely limited when it comes to addressing several pressing problems at once. that is why i voted in favour of the report which calls for the european union to be more effective in its development cooperation and aid. i believe that aid needs to be better aligned with national development plans and internationally agreed sustainable development goals. furthermore, there is a need to involve domestic actors as much as possible in the implementation of development programmes. we have learned in the past that without a sense of ownership, development aid has no desired effect. i joined the call for member states to start meeting their budgetary commitments under the united nations and for the european commission to be more active in monitoring development progress. it is necessary to align member states' and the european union's action plans as much as possible and to make development policy more transparent. i also supported the oecd's initiatives to reduce illicit financial flows and to put multinational companies under greater control.
in writing. ‒ the eu is the largest contributor to development aid. as a social democrat, i believe that development aid plays an important role in the fight against poverty, but only if it is managed effectively. it is therefore our duty to improve the effectiveness of this aid and thus ensure the desired development. the socialist group called for the report to be revised to strengthen the global partnership for effective development cooperation, to involve civil society and elected representatives more in the implementation of the development effectiveness agenda and, last but not least, to increase transparency in access to information. i have dealt with the effective use of development and humanitarian aid in my report to the committee on budgetary control some time ago. i consider one of the key elements for increasing efficiency to be the effective linking of development aid with humanitarian aid. at the same time, the eu must strengthen its control mechanisms, require timely and complete reporting, and insist on the sequestration of development aid and the respect by its beneficiaries of their human rights obligations in particular.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report on improving the effectiveness of development cooperation in the final vote. the report was produced in the context of the upcoming second meeting of the global partnership for effective development cooperation (gpedc), a multilateral forum of 161 countries of the world, taking place from 28 november 2016 to 1 december 2016 in nairobi, kenya, to monitor the progress made towards the common goals adopted at the 2011 pusan forum, republic of korea. the european parliament stresses its role in democratically overseeing all eu policies, including development policies, while also highlighting the need to respond to new development challenges (migration, peace and stability, food security). i consider it necessary for the commission to monitor how effectively the financial assistance is used, whether it is misused for other purposes. i join the call in the report for member states to be even more active in the future in establishing cooperation with the national parliaments of countries in need of development aid. a good example in this respect is the work of the czech development agency, which was highly praised in a recent oecd study.
in writing. i supported today's draft report on making development cooperation more effective, as i believe that the european union, as the world's largest provider of development aid, must constantly evaluate how to make development aid as effective as possible. the report rightly points out that 'legitimate and inclusive governance based on the rule of law and respect for human rights is an essential element of development aid in developing countries, so that it can properly fulfil its role in reducing poverty and improving the situation and future of people'. development aid also needs to rely not only on the actions of governments but also on the involvement of ngos and other elements of civil society, who need help even if their governments pursue a policy of non-compliance with human rights.
in writing. ‒ the busan global partnership for effective development cooperation is the multilateral agreement between civil society organisations, as well as partner governments, traditional donors, brics and private donors. in the aim of increasing aid and development effectiveness, the busan partnership for effective development cooperation is now being reviewed, ten years on, in order to scrutinise implementation of the global commitments regarding aid and development effectiveness. i voted in favour of the report on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation because i believe the aid-monitoring framework that was established ten years ago has to be built upon to be further strengthened and adjusted for maximum success.
in writing. the ecr group supports the report presented without reservation. we agree that 'more needs to be done with less' and that the current migration crisis we face in the eu is just a reflection of the poverty and lack of any economic or social perspective in many of the world's developing and poorest countries. i would like to emphasise the following three principles in particular, which i consider to be essential vectors for increasing the effectiveness of our development policies: 1. the role of the private sector is crucial. the private sector, alongside traditional governmental and non-governmental development organisations, is a real and effective partner in our development strategies and a new source of financing for development aid in general; 2.the european union cannot bear the responsibility (and consequences) alone for the failure of global development policies and the continuing armed conflicts. the new development aid actors such as china, brazil, turkey, russia or india need to be more involved, not only because of their geographical proximity, historical ties, but also because of their recent or current development experience; 3. and last but not least, it should be recalled that the effectiveness of development aid depends to a large extent on the developing countries themselves. the beneficiary countries must simultaneously implement pro-growth economic policies that introduce market economy mechanisms, mobilize private capital and gradually integrate into the world economy.
in writing. ‒ development cooperation is one of the european union's long-term commitments, and i therefore support this report, which looks at ways of making it more effective. as one of the largest donors of development aid, the eu has a special responsibility to improve aid effectiveness worldwide and should therefore set an example for other actors. i believe it is important to promote not only development aid and its financing, but also to promote an approach that goes beyond development aid. i am referring, for example, to measures to increase the transparency of aid, to improve joint planning and to ensure good coordination between the actors concerned, particularly in the areas of monitoring, transparency and shared responsibility. i consider it essential that all the relevant actors - national parliaments, local authorities, private sector bodies and local actors - should be involved in promoting development policy. only then can development cooperation be effective.
war is always evil, and i, commissioner, thank you for your efforts to end it. because the war in syria is a challenge for all of us. who would have imagined six years ago that this war would last for so long and that the parties that looked like they were going to sit down to negotiate never sat down to negotiate or never will sit down to negotiate. my question is, commissioner, what are you doing to prevent the fighting we see in syria today from spilling over? there's the question of not having them flow into, say, egypt, of not having isis members flow into, say, libya or other unstable countries. and i think that's an important question in resolving conflicts, not just in syria.
the question posed by the blue card. i have a question for you. you talked about ending funding for refugees. have you ever been to turkey, to refugee camps to see? have you seen how these refugees live? did you actually see what that money was financing? stop what? what do you gain by stopping aid to refugees and stopping the deal with turkey? who's the profiteer? are you going to punish erdogan or are you going to punish the people who need this help the most?
turkey has huge problems, and yet i say that turkey is a key partner for us in the fight against illegal immigration. he's our partner in refugee return, and this deal that was made is being fulfilled. turkey is part of an alliance that is essential to a peaceful solution in the middle east, and it is also our nato ally. today we are talking about turkey again because we are concerned about the development of president erdogan's policy. turkey is moving away from european standards. this is also evidenced by the fact that our eu-turkey delegation has not met here in the ep for a year and a half. it's understandable, apparently the turkish delegation has no interest in explaining some of their repressive actions. i would like to call on the high representative to come forward with the two czech citizens who have been arrested and are to be tried for belonging to the kurdish militia and charged with terrorism. i ask that they be given a proper trial and investigation and then released.
madam president, when i was in the college in 2004 we debated the report on turkey. i, together with gunther verheugen, was a strong advocate of starting the negotiations and approving the report. why? because turkey had met the five conditions from helsinki. for the same reason today, that means that turkey is no longer complying with these conditions, i am in favour of suspension of these negotiations, of course with the possibility to resume once the conditions are met. but let’s be frank. turkey today does not meet the copenhagen criteria and the copenhagen criteria are the criteria on the basis of which we launch negotiations, we negotiate, and we finish. we have no other option. that does not mean that we cannot have a dialogue, we cannot have a strategic partnership, we cannot try to resolve the issues that are separating us, but not through the accession negotiations.
in writing. i think it is important to remember that the accession negotiations with turkey were launched in a very different political situation. it's no secret that she's been in a bind for the past few years. the conclusion of the accession negotiations would be a fairly clear reflection of the current political reality. this must not, however, mean that all links are broken or that efforts to bring about convergence in the various areas of cooperation are abandoned. it is necessary to continue communication with turkey, which is a very important partner for the eu.
madam president, the israeli-palestinian conflict is complicated. i believe that we all want peace, but it takes two to tango and palestinians simply refuse to negotiate with israel on borders, on security and so on, and rather they attack it with rockets. the european union cannot resolve this conflict in lieu of palestinians and jews. the eu should be impartial, but instead of that the eu patronises palestinians and discriminates jews. please respect that in the area of the west bank, or judea and samaria as its historical name is, there are both palestinians and jews. why can the palestinians have free trade with the eu while the eu imposes high tariffs on eu goods? for this reason i have established a working group of friends of judea and samaria to establish fairness.
last week, the 42nd interparliamentary meeting of the delegations of the ep and the israeli knesset took place in brussels. i had the honor of chairing much of this meeting. an open exchange of views took place, with the members of the two parliaments present having ample room for questions and extensive answers on a variety of topics, including those on which there are differences of opinion, such as settlement construction in the occupied territories, but also on security, terrorism, the continuation of the peace process, confidence-building and mutual cooperation. legitimate questions were asked in both directions. the debate was conducted in the spirit of understanding the situation on the ground. i consider this to be the basis and i believe that this approach should be inherent in all debates on parliament's floor.
i would also like to express my support for commissioner mogherini, because i am very positive about her work. i think that the eu citizens expect us to give them a feeling of security above all. this security concerns the protection of external borders, the sea, protection against terrorists and a range of other terrorist and other security threats. i think we have to respond to this and i want to thank the rapporteur, mr paşcu, for the report he has presented, because i consider it to be balanced. we should strengthen the multiannual financial framework in the defence and security policy budget and, of course, the budget for individual years. in this respect, i feel that we have made a good start, including the report on security and defence policy which was approved by your colleague today.
we are at war. we are at war with the russian federation. we don't realize that a word can be more powerful than missile systems or su-25 fighter jets. it's a hybrid war being waged by the kremlin against us, against the eu. it's a war the kremlin is winning. anna fotyga has decided to take a strong defensive stance against russian hostile propaganda. her report clearly states that russian strategic communications are part of a subversive campaign. i would like to point out, madam high commissioner, that your defence in this information war is weak and ineffective and not only that, i think it is also woefully underfunded. how do you intend, commissioner, to counter with your tiny team the millions of dollars that russian intelligence funds agencies like russia today or sputnik? remember, ladies and gentlemen, losing this information war is the beginning of the end of the eu.
as we have so often done in the past, we are not focusing on the essentials. the problem is that eu citizens have less and less trust in the european institutions, because they do not feel that the european project is of benefit to them. they often deal with very complex personal and family socio-economic problems and, yes, they are therefore susceptible to anti-european sentiments. so what better way to deal with this than propaganda? how to really help our citizens. why not try to involve them more in the decision-making process, reflect on their issues and concerns? in recent years, we have shown them that the rich get richer and that commission presidents have luxury business jobs after they leave the top of the eu. that is not the europe the citizens want. we're not giving them the alternative they're so desperately clamouring for. the last thing we need to do is trust people. they know what they're reading, and they know how to work with it. people are not stupid, stupid are those who are engaged in subjects that definitely do not help them in life.
i appreciate that the commission is taking important action to strengthen human capital, employment and competitiveness. i also thank you for informing me that the council has accepted your proposal. while education is fully a competence of the member states, the european institutions also need to respond at european level to respond to the fact that in fact up to 25% of adults do not have even a minimum level of literacy, numeracy and digital skills. that there are 65 million people who haven't even finished secondary education, which is just crucial. it is these people with insufficient skills who need to be targeted for this second chance. i appreciate the proposal that you focus on assessing the existing skills of these people, the subsequent training offer, adapting to the needs of the labour market and the individual, and then validating and recognising this training. i think it's a very good program. but what i want to stress, and i have reservations about, is that we're dealing with the consequences of when schools, the education system, fail to reduce early school leaving, and that's what we should be focusing on. support these schools and teachers. without the support of teachers, we can't improve the situation, and i want to encourage you to do the same.
people with hearing impairments face obstacles every day, even in such routine activities as visiting a doctor or office and many others. many of these barriers would be removed by the assistance of a professional sign language interpreter, of whom there is an acute shortage in the eu countries, for example in the czech republic there are fewer than a hundred. this means that there are approximately 140 clients for every interpreter. although this service is legally available to the deaf, it is difficult to access in practice. although sign language interpreters are fully comparable to interpreters of any foreign language, many countries do not recognise their profession and there are insufficient standards for their formal training. the conference on sign languages, recently organised by our colleague helga stevens, has been mentioned several times. as i was pleased to support this conference and invite a delegation of hearing-impaired persons from the czech republic, i am also fully supportive of this resolution.
for the group gue/ngl. let me begin by thanking in particular the rapporteur, julia girling, and the other shadow rapporteurs. i think it was not always an easy job, and i think it was a rather time-consuming job, and yet i dare say that the rapporteur in particular, as our leader, did it and did it well. however, looking back at the whole negotiation of this directive, i am a little sad because i also see it as a missed opportunity. the final text is a mere shadow of the ambitious text originally approved. the conclusion of the negotiations was negatively affected by two things. firstly, panic fear of the incoming presidency of the council and secondly, excuse me, brexit, which at that time was only a few days old from its shocking birth. in this atmosphere, we panicked unnecessarily, and the end result is to be known. the biggest problem i see is that the original text, in its pre-trialogue version, contained a legally binding commitment to reduce the health burden on people from air pollution by 52% compared to 2005. the text voted at the same time, however, agrees with the council's proposed value of 49.6%, while the red line was 50%. but behind these abstract numbers are concrete, preventable, extra lives lost. and i'm not even gonna comment on the other huge concessions we've served to the council on a silver platter. so it's very difficult for me to relate to this document. but i would like to end on a positive note. any improvement in air quality is a way forward and will help people's health, even in situations where it could have been greater. and while i see that figure as a big disappointment, ultimately, this number could mean cleaner air than our citizens are breathing right now, and that's certainly, albeit a small, positive.
i welcome the agreement on reducing national emissions of certain air pollutants, even though the resulting compromise falls short of the european parliament's ambitions. overall, the health-related emissions are to be reduced by 49,6% by 2030, which is clearly an improvement over the current situation. the proposed reduction targets were informally agreed during the dutch presidency of the eu council. the czech republic, which supports the current proposal and has already made stricter reduction commitments by 2020 than the text of the directive, agreed with them. it is also in line with the approved framework position of the czech republic and will have positive impacts on air quality both as a result of measures taken in the czech republic and as a result of reduced transboundary pollution. i would also like to stress that the proposed reduction targets are acceptable and achievable without imposing an unbearable burden on the economy. it is important to recognise that air pollution not only has negative effects on health and the environment, but also causes external costs of between eur 330 and 400 billion, including direct economic damage of eur 15 billion (absence from work due to health problems), eur 4 billion (healthcare costs), eur 3 billion (loss of crop yields) and eur 1 billion as a result of damage to buildings.
the cop 22 final declaration characterises the implementation of the current paris commitment as an urgent obligation. today, more than ever, it is necessary that developed countries re-emphasise their commitment to implement the paris agreement and ensure adequate funding, especially for developing countries. last year, we made history by bringing all the major players to the climate talks, including those who have long refused to accept their share of responsibility for the fate of the world, including the united states. but their new president has said that he is putting that success in jeopardy, and i hope very much that he will really stick to his word. president trump should realize that his stance will directly affect other major polluters. if the u.s. withdraws from the treaty, the rest of the big players will withdraw from the treaty, and with them, the rest of the world. the real danger is that europe will be left alone in its struggle. i would very much like to see this end. we must appeal to mr. trump to realize his enormous share of responsibility for the fate of the planet and to stand up to him as the man he likes to call himself.
in writing. ‒ i do not consider questioning of the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed agreement between canada and the eu relevant because both the ep’s and commission’s legal services have no doubt that the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) and the investment court system (ics) are compatible with eu law. that is why i voted against this resolution. ceta is one of the most progressive treaties the eu has ever negotiated and i fully support its fulfilment without any further delay.
in writing. ‒ i was very pleased to be able to table a motion for a resolution with my colleagues in the european parliament, arguing that there is legal uncertainty as to whether the proposed ceta is compatible with the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and to ask the court of justice to give an opinion on the compatibility of the proposed agreement with the treaties. but by some miracle, the 419 members of the european parliament became distinguished judges overnight, and they read through the entire ceta (1600 pages) and decided that they understood it better and therefore did not need the opinion of the court. there's a lot to investigate. ceta contains a new international arbitration mechanism, the ics, but it retains the main problems of the previous isds, namely the special courts for corporations, before which states are always only defendants. moreover, because of their canadian headquarters, us multinational corporations can also benefit from ceta lawsuits. about 80% of them have that canadian headquarters. canada alone has faced several dozen international arbitrations. an infamous example is lone pine, which is suing canada for more than 175 million euros for the province of quebec's ban on dangerous shale gas extraction. i therefore voted in favour of this responsible proposal.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution requesting the court of justice to give an opinion on the compatibility of ceta with the treaties and i am glad that the motion did not pass. i regard it as an attempt by a part of the political representation to prevent the entry into force of ceta at all costs, or at least to postpone it. ceta is adopted by the standard procedure for adopting international treaties and there is no reason for the court of justice of the eu to intervene in this process. i am convinced that ceta has been negotiated to a high standard and that its early entry into force is in the interest of the czech economy and the european economy as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution and i regret that parliament did not support it. i consider the trade agreement with canada to be very beneficial for the development of the eu and canadian economies, but on the other hand we must listen to and take into account the concerns of our citizens and be able to explain to them all the facts that are in question. i believe that the court's findings will be an important element in the communication and transparency of the ceta process.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution seeking an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed agreement between canada and the european union on ceta. i believe that ceta is the most modern, progressive and extensive agreement that the eu has succeeded in closing. the agreement with canada allows the eu to maintain its values and standards, while accessing new lucrative markets, providing consumer choices and new investment opportunities. i support ceta, and therefore voted against the motion for a resolution, which would once again delay the ratification process. i strongly support the final agreement as it significantly benefits european businesses and its citizens.
i supported this report because there is no doubt that we must protect the air not only for ourselves but also for our children. we must protect health, the environment and lives. in my view, precisely because air knows no borders, it is clearly a crossborder problem and the eu's competence to tackle air pollution in cooperation with the member states is absolutely unquestionable. we in the czech republic, for example, have the ostrava region, which is suffering from emissions, exhaled into the air. this part of our country is affected by this cross-border influence. i do not want to say which member states, but we should really tackle this issue in cooperation between member states and within the competence of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this report because the european union has made significant progress in the area of the protection of our environment and human health so far, but i believe that we have to continue in our efforts and keep leading by an example. the commission’s proposal calls on members states to contribute to air quality by reducing the pollution caused by anthropogenic air emissions. i am in favour of high standards of environmental legislation and that is why i supported this proposal ambitiously contributing to the eu’s global strategy to combat air pollution as well as the overall environmental legislative framework.
in writing. i supported the agreement reached by the ep and the council at second reading, which sets stricter national ceilings for emissions of air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds (solvents, solvents, detergents), ammonia and fine particulate matter. the resulting agreement of a european average of national emission ceilings of 50% is a compromise between the original stricter position of the ep, which proposed a european average of national ceilings of 52%, and the more moderate position of the member states in the council, which proposed 48%. the adopted directive will contribute to improving air quality in the eu and in the czech republic its effects will be felt positively, especially by the inhabitants of border regions exposed to pollution from some neighbouring countries. air pollution knows no borders and therefore the issue of air quality must be tackled at european level.
in writing. the revision of the directive on annual emission limits for toxic air pollutants aims, in particular, to ensure further reductions in these emissions and thus to prevent health risks linked to air quality. the report was the subject of very long and complex council discussions, particularly because of pressure from countries such as the united kingdom, france, italy and poland. there have also been many changes in the attitudes of the various parliamentary groups. i am glad that our rapporteur, julia girling, has finally managed to find support across the spectrum, with the exception of the green group, for whom this report is clearly not ambitious enough. i would like to see a consensus on higher objectives, but i think that the compromise reached is the maximum possible in the present situation and i believe that it will be acceptable to the council.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec, which is at third reading. the directive sets targets for reducing emissions of the most serious air pollutants (sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds or ammonia) by setting reduction targets for 2030 for each member state and the eu as a whole against the 2005 reference values. the eu has committed to reducing its total emissions by 49.6% by 2030. although the european parliament went further in setting emission reduction targets than the commission's proposal, the czech republic has achieved achievable targets that will not impose an insurmountable economic burden. it is also important for our country to limit cross-border pollution, which comes mainly from poland. i am convinced that the targets for reducing emissions of the most serious pollutants we voted on today will contribute in the long term to reducing the negative impacts of these emissions on the environment and on people's health.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is a major health risk in the eu that causes more than 400 000 premature deaths each year. it is a cross-border threat that must be tackled at the european level. this directive will save lives: it will avoid tens of thousands of premature deaths annually and improve the quality of the environment. meeting the new targets will cut the negative health effects of pollution by half by 2030. tackling air pollution also brings economic benefits to society, since the economic cost of the health impacts of air pollution is estimated at 3-9% of gdp.
in writing. i supported the resolution which stresses the importance of the basel committee's work on developing internationally agreed minimum standards for prudential requirements for large international banks. the work of the committee is important to avoid regulatory fragmentation across the world. it should be noted that banks need to be well capitalised in order to support the real economy, reduce systemic risks and avoid a repeat of the bailout scenario as seen during the crisis. at the same time, care should be taken that the cumulative impact of regulation does not jeopardise the ability of financial institutions to support the economy in a way that maintains stable economic growth.
in writing. ‒ basel iii is a global, voluntary regulatory framework on bank capital adequacy, stress testing, and market liquidity risk. the motion for a resolution on the basel iii accord calls for a revision of the regulatory framework, to include, inter alia, a better promotion of a level playing field at the global level by mitigating the differences between jurisdictions, national banking competencies and models, which in turn would mitigate the likelihood of unduly penalising the eu banking model. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe in better coordination and harmonisation of banking standards; as in most other sectors, there can be more opportunities for growth and prosperity.
in writing. ‒ the current security environment is characterised by less predictability and, conversely, more interconnectedness of other sectoral areas linked to it. the dynamics of security threats are so sudden that it is necessary to respond more flexibly to current events. to do this, the common security and defence policy needs to have the appropriate resources and tools. i supported this report because i agree with its vision of sustained and structured cooperation between member states and an integrated approach to crises. i would also like to stress the importance of deeper cooperation in the field of cyber defence. cyberattacks can be devastating, and it is therefore essential to prepare together as best we can for this form of criminal activity.
in writing. the common security and defence policy has been one of the major topics of discussion within the community since the 1950s. the first six gradually expanded to include other advanced industrial nations, each producing its own weapons, whether handguns or other. the original concept, the western european union, was to bring about a convergence of standards and possible cooperation among arms manufacturers. especially after france's withdrawal from the nato military component and the relocation of its headquarters to brussels, the project took on a real contour. after de gaulle's retirement, it was enough to cough up a significant amount of overseas, or raise an eyebrow at the supreme head of nato, and new weapons, especially in the renewal of the air fleet and other modern systems were purchased from the usa. yet, from time to time, there is an attempt to refresh the original concept and to support the eu military-industrial complex. perhaps the only area where this has been achieved and where the eu is competing successfully is the airbus consortium, but this is mainly for civil use. only two successful multi-role implementations remain, both in the aerospace field, the eurofighter typhoon and gripen. we therefore call for the implementation of a common security and defence policy in accordance with the un charter and international law. it is necessary to separate the eu and nato in a consistent manner. weapons of mass destruction of all kinds must be banned and eliminated worldwide.
in writing. i could not support the report because its rapporteur believes that the basis for close and effective cooperation between the eu and nato is the complementarity and compatibility of their missions and thus of their inventories of assets. in addition, the report supports the commission's defence initiatives, such as the defence action plan and the defence industrial policy, which should be pursued after the presentation of the eu white paper on security and defence, supports the commission's further engagement in defence through large-scale and well-targeted research, planning and implementation, welcomes the preparatory action for csdp research and calls for adequate funding for the remainder of the current multiannual financial framework, and supports the development of the eu defence research programme in the next multiannual financial framework (2021-2027). i don't think the eu should invest in the arms industry to please the arms lobby. so it finally waits and reaches for european grant money. all those who wish for the peaceful development of our continent and planet are logically concerned about this development, because the militarization of europe has always led to war conflict, not to its prevention, so why should it be different today?
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this report, which calls for a thorough revision of the common security and defence policy, stresses the need to strengthen the partnership with nato and the transatlantic relationship in general. i consider close cooperation with nato to be essential to protect citizens and promote eu values and interests, of course in full respect of the treaties, international law and human rights. the report calls for an eu white paper on security and defence, which i consider very desirable. the report also calls for a stronger defence industry and supports reform of the athena mechanism that provides funding for eu operations and missions. i am convinced that a thorough revision of the csdp is necessary, that europe must be ready and able to act, that it must be a relevant player in the international arena.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy, which calls in particular for more coordinated action by the member states in view of the deteriorating security situation in the areas directly bordering the eu and the current interconnectedness of the world, especially in the field of cybersecurity. it is clear that no member state can face the current threats alone and no member state can resolve, for example, the situation in syria alone. this means better coordination not only in the response phase but also in the action phase, because only a coordinated eu policy has the potential to prevent the emergence of sources of tension.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy assesses the implementation of the csdp and the developments that took place in the last year. the report supports an eu white book on security and defence, a stronger defence industry and promotes the european defence action plan. further, the report endorses cooperation between the eu and nato. i voted in favour of the overall report, as i believe the csdp is a vital element in protecting eu citizens, as well as the promotion of eu values and interests, with full respect for the treaties, international law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i support the report presented because i believe that the eu's common security and defence policy should be clearly strengthened. on a theoretical level, i am convinced that the creation of a common european army would be clearly beneficial and that these units could effectively support the forces of the north atlantic alliance, which currently represents our only security alternative. on the other hand, i'm a realist, and i think that the creation of a european army would actually have the same problems that nato has now. i refer in particular to the unwillingness of states to contribute to their own defence and the general unwillingness of states to deal with defence at a collective level. as a first step towards common defence, eu countries should therefore now focus primarily on maintaining a level of defence spending of 2% of gdp, but also on improving cooperation between national armed forces. the european union should be able to respond quickly and effectively to current security threats. whether it's through cooperation between states or through joint units is not really relevant at this point.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on this highly important issue we have been heavily exposed to in recent years. threats of disinformation campaigns, spreading misleading and incorrect information through the eu public, are undermining our democracy and trust. as seen in some earlier cases, some of the key decisions of eu citizens have been influenced by such propaganda. as this is a real and serious security threat, we need to be able to come up with efficient tools how to counter it.
in writing. ‒ i believe that freedom of expression must remain one of the fundamental pillars of the european union. but we need to distinguish between freedom of speech and propaganda. campaigns that deliberately and systematically disinformation not only eu citizens need to be fought and not underestimated. i supported this initiative, which aimed to combat the dissemination of false information from third countries. hate speech in general must not be ignored, and in particular that emanating from within terrorist groups must not be tolerated in any form. i am glad that the european parliament has decided to take the path of non-reaction and that europe will not remain passive in this area.
in writing. i find the report by mrs fotygova on the desirability of counter-propaganda against russia and the islamic state to be very unsound. the entire report is written in language that we know intimately from a time when the right to differ did not exist. the report is filled with suspicion towards those who dare to think critically and is directed against all those who allegedly hide behind freedom of expression. the author of the report tends to divide people into those who are incapable of making their own judgments and those who are called upon to tell them the only valid truth. i remember very well that the same arguments were used during the era of husák standardization, which is why i voted against this report. i could understand the tone of the message if it was part of putin's propaganda. but as the opinion of the european parliament, i find it unworthy.
in writing. the report by mrs fotygová seems to erroneously refer to the eu's strategic communication to combat propaganda against it by third parties. a cursory glance at the 58-point text shows that the report is in fact concerned mainly with the way in which propaganda is carried out in third countries against their current regimes. it is repeatedly emphasised that the action of the big brother, the united states, is a good example for individual eu countries. the russophobia that characterises a significant part of the polish political scene finds expression in the breakdown of the report. after the opening paragraphs, we first find the beautifully titled chapter understanding and uncovering russia's disinformation and propaganda war. after 9 points, a bigoted catholic with a deep-seated russophobia is studying the methods of the islamic state. and that's in eight points. so it seems that in her eyes, islamic radicals and their methods of radicalizing a fairly large muslim community within the eu are much less dangerous than russia, which refuses to become a commodity pendant for eu states. in other paragraphs, we read, for example, that 'it calls on member states to adapt and update their legislation' or 'to fully implement and enforce existing legislation on hate speech'. if i take this formulation seriously, the author of the report will surely be investigated for spreading morbid russophobia soon, probably in poland.
in writing. i supported the report which rightly emphasises that information warfare is not only an external but also an internal problem of the eu. this area is one of the key issues of the day. the eu's propaganda and disinformation strategy by third countries can take many forms and can use traditional media, social networks, school curricula or political parties, such as the far-right french national front of marine le pen. in my view, the report should have focused more on russia as the main source of this hostile propaganda against the eu, and thus made it clear that it is russian propaganda that it considers to be the greatest threat to stability in the eu. instead, the report gives equal weight to the propaganda of the so-called islamic state, which is much less sophisticated and therefore dangerous than the russian propaganda. the eu's strategy to combat propaganda should therefore be endowed with sufficient material and human resources to reduce the risk of this threat to our future.
in writing. ‒ the main point of the report is to counter propaganda and radicalisation through cooperation between the member states and the european institutions. unfortunately, the report identifies two threats regarding propaganda: a non-state actor, the terrorist group known as daesh or isis, and a state actor, russia. i believe the propaganda targeting eu and its citizens is an undeniable fact, the need to react by strategic communication is apparent, but mixing the state and non-state actors is not the correct approach. however, the fact that the eu states are subject to a very strong propaganda, while the russian one is more present in the central and eastern europe, made me express my support to the report. i am persuaded, however, that further attention should be given to both russian and daesh actions, but in a separate way. the separation is necessary not only because of the political gap but also because of the different strategic communication targets. countering the propaganda and the radicalisation requires cooperation between the member states and the european institutions. we should not underestimate the role of efficient propaganda and visible impacts on our society.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report on eu strategic communication to counter propaganda against it by third parties. i consider it important that the eu responds to the activities that are being created against the eu, in particular by russia, but also by isis and other states or entities. i remember the constant propaganda on television, radio and newspapers before 1989, which systematically eliminated all signs of opposition to the socialist establishment and the policies of the ksč. today, in a different era, with the right to freedom of expression and access to information, it's even harder to navigate and know which ones to trust and which ones not to trust, which ones are designed to deliberately deceive us. russia and isis are playing the same tune by reinforcing fear, mistrust and hatred. in the czech republic, we currently register for forty websites with disinformation content, some of which are directly linked to russia or have the eu in their name. that's very disturbing. our common objective is certainly not to create eu propaganda but to counter the spread of misinformation and disinformation. we must defend the truth and teach its recognition, beginning with the pupils and students in the schools. we also need to communicate better and more clearly with citizens, explaining our work, our common efforts, our common european values.
in writing. the disinformation and propaganda agenda of today's russia has clear parallels with the era of soviet mass miscommunication. in the european parliament, i have been constantly warning of the dangers of our inaction and our utter lack of defence. the solution to the problem begins with naming it, and that is why i appreciate and supported the resolution on strategic communication to combat propaganda. it was authored by the chairperson of the subcommittee on defence and security, anna fotyga. it is now abundantly clear that information warfare and disinformation are not only an external but also an internal problem for the eu. the report proves that disinformation and propaganda are part of hybrid warfare. the hybrid war the kremlin is waging against us. it's high time we realized that the word can be more powerful than missile systems. another dangerous activity of the russian federation mentioned in the report is the financial support of the kremlin against the eu forces in the eu. the rise of actors that deny the fundamental values of liberal democracies, especially far-right parties, populist forces and movements, is in no small part due to these efforts. the damage done will not be easy to repair. what do you do? there are a lot of steps that need to be taken, and i'll give you one example. i've been warning for a long time that efforts to date are woefully underfunded. point 27 refers to the strategic communication working party. it is one of several experts working within the eeas. it needs to be substantially reinforced and financed by an additional specific budget line.
in writing. ‒ today i supported the european parliament's report on eu strategic communication to combat propaganda against it by third parties. the report clearly identifies the need to combat propaganda, which is now an integral part of the so-called hybrid warfare. in the case of the propaganda russia is conducting in the eu member states, it is not so much about winning new supporters for putin's policies, but about spreading false and manipulated information in order to prevent any fact-based discussion. the aim of russian propaganda is to disrupt the cooperation of individual eu member states and the possibility of democratic debate in these individual states. in the future, however, it is not enough to simply name these phenomena, but above all to actively defend against them. appropriate financial and human resources should be allocated to this.
in writing. ‒ the report on the eu strategic communication to counteract anti-eu-propaganda by third parties seeks to create an eu response to misinformation and propaganda against the eu, notably by sources of opposition such as russia and isis. the diffusion of propaganda has become a persistent challenge to eu legitimacy and is used by outside forces to destabilise and weaken europe’s integrity. i voted in favour of the report because i believe the eu has to do everything in its power to mitigate the spread of misinformation by those who oppose europe and wish to destabilise the union.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on combating propaganda, as i think this is an area where the european union should take a much more active stance. at the same time, i want to stress that we must be careful not to cross the thin line between fighting propaganda and restricting the freedom of speech of those who only want to think critically. the aim of internet propaganda is to sow doubt, spread false claims, and thus create fear and negative emotions. i personally believe that we should not confront propaganda campaigns by restricting them, banning them or even more propaganda, but rather by seeking to improve awareness and raise awareness of the true view of the matter. russia, islamic state, and other actors are investing huge resources both in their own agencies that spread disinformation and in influencing opinions on social media and in the mainstream media. the european union must realise this and devote more effort and resources to fighting this information war.
in writing. in the european parliament's plenary vote on wednesday, i voted in favour of sign languages and sign language interpreters. it is estimated that there are approximately 1 million deaf people using sign languages and 51 million deaf people in the european union, most of whom also use sign languages. rather, every citizen has the right to equal treatment and full inclusion in society. that is why, at the plenary, i supported further efforts to ensure the independence and autonomy of deaf, deafblind and hard of hearing people. member states should commit to training new sign language interpreters in order to guarantee access to education, employment, technology and a full life for all citizens. and the institutions of the european union should lead by example.
in writing. ‒ for me as a social democrat, it is an absolute priority to prevent any form of discrimination against people, including deaf citizens. that is why i am pleased that we have succeeded in getting the resolution on sign languages and professional sign language interpreters through. deaf people use national sign languages, which should be on an equal footing with other languages. there are approximately 1 million deaf people in the eu who use sign language and 51 million deaf people, many of whom also prefer sign language. until sign languages are equitable, it will be impossible for their users to achieve independent living, autonomy and full participation in society. it is therefore necessary to be able to use sign languages in communication with national authorities as well as eu bodies, which is practically impossible without the involvement of sign language interpreters. we must advocate for their equal treatment with natural language interpreters.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's own-initiative report on sign language and professional sign language interpreters. the report aims at the full participation of hearing-impaired people in society, in particular by making concrete proposals to address the shortage of qualified sign language interpreters, by highlighting the need to provide public and state services to hearing-impaired people, by providing accurate translations in the case of court proceedings, or by highlighting the potential of using language technologies in the digital domain. the report was adopted as amended, including in particular the amendment calling for the member states to maintain the obligation to require media service providers to ensure the progressive accessibility of their services to persons with visual or hearing impairments in the audiovisual media services directive. i voted in favour of this amendment because it is in line with what we are trying to get across in the committee on culture and education in the revised directive. i consider it essential that audiovisual media services are accessible to people with a hearing impairment. it is necessary to promote the full participation of persons with a hearing impairment in society and to enable them to access information, including digital content. i consider that the provision of audiovisual media services to persons with a hearing impairment is a measure that will make a significant contribution to ensuring equal opportunities for such persons, with a broader impact on their access to education and employment.
in writing. ‒ insign is the eu’s pilot project, which initiates the implementation of a real-time sign language application and service, aimed at improving communication between deaf and hard-of-hearing people and the eu institutions. this initiative will help cater to the needs of deaf, deaf-blind and hard-of-hearing visitors in the eu institutions by directly providing access to national or regional sign language and speech-to-text services. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on improving access to sign language and professional sign language interpreters because i believe, in the objective of true equality, that hearing-impaired persons should have access to the same quality interpretation and communication as any other person would have.
in writing. on 23 november 2016, at the plenary session of the european parliament in strasbourg, we voted to oppose the renewal of the approval of the active substance bentazone. this is one of the many battles that my colleagues and i have fought with the european commission and its consistent practice of renewing authorizations for the use of potentially dangerous substances without proper and open scientific harm assessment consulted by the expert public. this time, the european commission has proposed to renew the authorisation of this substance for a further 15 years (for glyphosate it has been granted 7), despite the fact that the uk environment agency has detected the common presence of this pesticide in surface and groundwater and that no relevant studies have yet been carried out on the carcinogenicity of benzocaine and its effects on the human endocrine system. the substance has already been shown to have a major effect on the mammalian endocrine system, for example in laboratory rats. in the absence of clear data on the safety of the substance, i followed the precautionary principle and supported this objection. i mean, i voted against the re-authorization of bentazone.
in writing. ‒ bentazone is a widely used herbicide and an important component of plant protection and agricultural production. however, i am convinced, as the opponent is, that human and animal health and effective protection of the environment must come first, since the sustainability of agricultural production depends on all of these. the criteria for endocrine disruptors are not yet clearly defined and, despite the pressure from the agricultural sector, i think that this is a reason to wait for the relevant data on which to base these criteria. the objection does not seek to challenge the scientific research to date, but asks that verified data be made available before the substance is authorised for another 15 years as a potentially toxic and reproductive toxicant. it is also about complying with existing legislation. meps have the right to object to implementing acts and previous cases have shown that, despite the fact that there is officially no influence on the european commission's procedure, political pressure can play a crucial role in the outcome.
in writing. ‒ while i consider it important to apply the precautionary principle when there is a potential danger for human or environmental health, in this case, several circumstances justify a more cautious approach, in particular against the background of the still unresolved questions over a proper definition for criteria for endocrine disruptors. for this reason but also because of the potential interest-related matter of the ano leader i decided to abstain.
i support the eu's accession to the istanbul convention as a symbolic gesture, because violence against women is still a widespread evil that must be fought. we must also fight violence against every human being, against children, against the elderly. i'm against violence against unborn children. i also think that we should not therefore set out violence against women as a specific crime at eu level. specific measures against violence against women and domestic violence must be implemented by the member states. if the eu is committed to combating violence, i see this as supporting the efforts of the member states and i can agree with such a commitment by the eu.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, mr langen, and everybody who has contributed to this very significant report. we are very glad of your valuable guidance for the commission and i am also glad that we share the same views on many of these issues. vat is a big source of revenue for the member states and that is why, every once in a while, we have to check if everything in this field is fit for purpose because the world around us is changing. there are obviously some shortcomings which we have to address. first, member states are faced with a massive revenue loss. the vat gap has been estimated at around eur 160 billion each year. cross-border fraud alone accounts for eur 50 billion each year. second, complying with vat rules for cross—border and digital activities is still very cumbersome. compliance costs need to be reduced. third, we must adapt the system to technological progress, tax goods and services where they are consumed, and give member states more flexibility in setting vat rates. the commission, via the action plan, sets out immediate and urgent actions to tackle the vat gap and adapt the vat system to the digital economy, e—commerce and the needs of small and medium—sized enterprises. it provides a clear orientation towards a robust, definitive vat system for cross—border supplies and proposes options for modern and flexible rules on vat rates. overall this action plan sets out progressive steps towards a modernised and rebooted vat system tailored to the single market. the proposed initiatives are numerous and ambitious, but i believe that they are realistic with their step—by—step approach. i am pleased that the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) welcomes many of these. the option we put forward for the definitive vat system based on the – already agreed – destination principle consists in taxing intra—eu supplies in the member states of destination via an extended one—stop shop. i warmly welcome parliament’s support in the report adopted by econ and its strong reference to the principle of the fractionated payments of vat, which should remain a core element of the definitive vat system. this would ensure a consistent treatment with domestic supplies and drastically reduce cross—border fraud. it has been estimated that this option would reduce cross—border vat fraud by 80%. in real terms eur 40 billion more could be collected per year. other options, like the generalised reverse charge, which econ’s report recommends, do not offer the same potential. in fact replacing vat by a sort of sales tax could significantly increase fraud and administrative burdens for businesses. in our view, this is not the right approach. the time has also come to adapt the vat rates legislation to the definitive vat system based on the destination principle, which should allow for creative rates flexibility for member states. i welcome parliament’s willingness to provide us with a clear guidance on the options we have set out in the vat action plan. we will give full consideration to this guidance when preparing our legislative proposals next year. by the end of this year the commission will already address some of your recommendations in a series of ambitious legislative proposals. as regards smes and e-commerce, the commission’s upcoming proposal will include a threshold and other simplification initiatives targeted at small and micro-businesses, including an extended and enhanced one—stop shop mechanism. this proposal will also address current distortions putting eu businesses at a significance disadvantage compared to non-eu businesses, which can legally supply small consignments vat-free into the eu annually and frequently omit paying the vat they should. as regards rates for e-publication, our upcoming proposal will give member states the option of aligning the vat treatment of e—publication, such as books, newspapers and periodicals, with that of printed publication. taking into account last may’s ecofin council conclusions on the action plan, the commission will pursue its efforts to achieve consensus. we count on parliament’s active support in this respect. the commission is equally determined to take strong actions to speed up the fight against vat fraud in the eu, an idea dear to this house. as recommended and supported by you, the commission is working to improve the administrative cooperation between the member states, in particular by reinforcing eurofisc, by more efficient and real time sharing of information, and by adding a common risk analysis, as well as by deepening cooperation with other european and national law enforcement authorities. i look looking forward to a good debate and good cooperation when trying to find good and concrete proposals next year.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all let me say that this is a very important and well prepared initiative. better, more efficient and fairer taxation is one of our key economic priorities and we are acting accordingly. collecting taxes better applies not only in relation to large corporations or multinationals but also in any areas where we are losing money. as was said by the commissioner and the rapporteur, we are losing tens of billions of euros every year in vat fraud or vat avoidance, and there is no excuse for us not to act. unlike in the case of corporate taxation, where europe cannot resolve all of the issues, these are our own domestic issues. so there is no excuse for not taking decisive steps – and improving the exchange of information among member states is not a sufficient solution. that is why i believe the commission proposal is a very good and efficient way to tackle the issue. i consider vat to be an effective means of collecting tax, and i believe that any move towards a turnover or sales tax, rather than solving problems, would create more problems. that is why i really support the initiative to tackle the challenges of the digital economy and, especially, to improve and amend the cross-border aspect. once again, i would call on the commission and the council to build consensus as soon as possible and to start to act.
the current vat system is imperfect and it is therefore appropriate that the commission has presented a draft vat action plan. the whole system needs to be modernised and simplified. the current system is not sufficiently robust against fraud, and the scale of the fraud is enormous. in the context of the fight against tax fraud, i consider it important and almost necessary to apply the mechanism of passing on the tax liability to the final payer. the wider introduction of the tax liability carry-over mechanism is the third pillar of the tax administration reform in my home country, the czech republic, and completely eliminates the so-called vat loophole. the ep's draft report also deals with this mechanism and welcomes a pilot project in this area. i would like to call on the commission to assess objectively its impact on the fight against vat fraud, and i hope that the commission's assessment will be taken into account in the design of the new vat system in the eu. not only because the tax liability carry-over mechanism is tested in practice, unlike other concepts which are still theoretical. cooperation within the eu, as well as with third countries, is also essential for the successful fight against fraud. in particular, the rapid and regular exchange of information in the field of the internal market is an effective tool. it is therefore necessary to equip our national authorities to improve tax collection, the scope of controls and communication with each other. given the numerous revelations of links between vat evasion and organised crime and serious criminal activities, including terrorist financing, the modernisation of the current system is also necessary. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
blue-card question. – in the czech plan for a pilot for reverse charging, the czech government would like to use the reverse charge plan for roughly five years. when you call upon the commission to consider the results of the pilot project, and only after that to decide on the shape of european reform, does that mean that you are in favour of postponing the proposed reform for many years?
blue-card answer. – i would say that the pilot project has two purposes. the first is to tackle the level of crime in this area, which is high in the czech republic, and the second is to demonstrate whether this approach can deliver results. i think the commission does not need five years to evaluate what is going on. there has already been success in some areas in the czech republic in this regard, and the enlarged pilot project could be assessed in less than five years, i would say.
i would also like to thank mr langen, because when a report is presented in the tax field, which is praised across the political spectrum in this way, i think it really deserves recognition and thanks. the complexity of the system, the leaks that are generated within the system by fraudulent behaviour - i agree with everything my colleagues have said. i come from the czech republic and it's been mentioned many times here. our movement is in opposition at the national level, but at the european level i feel part of a coalition. i would therefore like to give the czech ministry of finance a chance to show what it can do, to actually present a pilot project and to work on it in a way that does not further complicate the problem and unnecessarily delay the procedure at european level. i firmly believe that the treasury will succeed, and if it doesn't, it's his shame.
i agree with my predecessors when they talk about the significance of the harmfulness of this phenomenon. indeed, wildlife trafficking is a phenomenon that threatens the very populations, and it has reached such heights that these species are dying out. i also agree with the importance of prevention, education and education, which has been talked about a lot here, but i think the main thing is hidden in each of us. what is the approach of each of us to resources, whether economic or landscape or animal? i think if we follow the motto "after our flood", our descendants will feel it very soon. i would very much like us to take a really responsible and sensible approach to the environment. i'd like to support that, too.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate dominique riquet on a very good report, and i would like to draw attention to the fact that digitalisation should focus on passengers, on the consumers, rather than what i may call the complex approach. creativity of smes, all that provides for enormous opportunities, but based on the condition (and that is something that you have stressed, madam commissioner) of an internal market without barriers – of course, fully respecting the community legislation, and national laws for sure, but at the same time, in this framework, by addressing eventual anti-competitive approaches and measures, giving an opportunity to new business models. that will create the opportunities, that will provide for better services, focus on the consumers but also on creating jobs. i think we should maintain that approach.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to underline that many of us have negotiated numerous international agreements and we know that there has to be a certain balance. obviously, while we would love to be consulted on every single proposal that is made, sometimes negotiating techniques mean that this is not always possible. but that is one side of the story. the second part of the story – and you have heard it – is that many of us have different concerns. some have social concerns, some have concerns about security, safety or trade, some want to see a liberal approach etc. i must say that the parliament is very lively today on these issues. while i might not share some of the concerns, i do appreciate the fact that the parliament has to be engaged. we need to find the right balance. this is perhaps the way to avoid unpleasant surprises later on. this means that we can have solid interaction with the commission from time to time in plenary as we are doing today, but the committee and the commission services should be in intensive contact on the relevant issues to be negotiated. that is a message to the commission. the message for us is that the agreements are an opportunity. it is something that can address a number of the issues that we are legitimately concerned about. some of you mentioned social issues and some mentioned anti-competitive measures. i am the rapporteur for aviation strategy, and i would like to see a fair competition clause in the bilateral agreements. this is just one example, but i think that we need to understand that, while there has to be a balance, we also need to address these agreements as an opportunity to settle some of the problems and some of the concerns, but also maximise the effect for our consumers, our industries and our airliners and to avoid counterproductive results.
i would like to say on this case that the eu, and indeed the european people's party, consider respect for human rights in china as important as good trade relations. kidnapping people from any other country back to china is absolutely unacceptable and will always be absolutely unacceptable to the eu. the ep calls for all chinese citizens, including publishers, editors, journalists and bloggers, to be given the space to express their views without fear of any retaliation. freedom of speech is the foundation of all healthy societies, and we need to have a pretty tough conversation with china about that. solving this case will certainly improve eu-china relations, but this case is far from the end of our interest in human rights in china.
unfortunately, today we must again call on china to uphold basic human rights, the principles of due process and even its own standards for the territory of hong kong. the case of swedish citizen kueje min-chae, who is still being held without a known whereabouts for carrying out legal activities in hong kong, reminds us once again that we must not slacken our efforts to uphold basic human rights, even in the interest of improving trade relations. especially when we're talking about a country that practices forced organ harvesting from prisoners. we must constantly convince china that adhering to its own rules and international standards is not a sign of weakness, but rather a sign of healthy self-confidence and a prerequisite for respect from the international community.
kuei min-chai is another swedish citizen living in hong kong who was kidnapped and is being held in an unknown location. it is this case and many others that we mention in our resolution. china has committed to respect the one country, two systems principle in the case of hong kong, including respect for the personal freedoms of the residents. china is acting as an unreliable partner for the eu countries. the european parliament has called for the release of ms min-chai and the other missing persons to be a topic for the next formal talks between eu and chinese representatives. china needs to know that we care about human rights, that respect for human rights and transparency is part of modern trade agreements. respect for the rule of law is also in the interest of our chinese businessmen.
for the ppe group. according to the un special rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples, virtually no major progress has been made in the implementation of un recommendations on key solutions to the long-standing indigenous rights problem in brazil over the past eight years. on the contrary, we are seeing a retreat from the protection of these rights. we recall that the brazilian federal ministry signed clear and concrete commitments with the national foundation for the support of indigenous peoples. among other things, to demarcate 36 territories of the guaraní-kaiowá community in mato grosso do sul by 2009. this objective has not yet been achieved. on the contrary, we have seen the violence of recent times escalate dramatically. the eu-brazil partnership is built on mutual trust and respect for democratic principles and values, of which the protection of human rights is an integral part. we should definitely remind the brazilian authorities of this.
the author. the case of ildar dadin for me symbolizes 3 fundamental issues of today's russia: the flagrant trampling on the right to peaceful assembly, the alarming state of the judiciary and imprisonment, including inhumane treatment and torture, the cases of those who have been arrested on false or unfounded charges or for exercising their right to freedom of expression and assembly. ildar dadin is the first citizen of the russian federation to be deprived of liberty on the basis of the scandalous article 212.1 of the criminal code, which was adopted by the russian duma in 2014. it's an article that can put anyone in jail for up to 5 years for participating in a peaceful public protest, even for peacefully holding a protest poster in public. this article so flagrantly violates the very constitution of the russian federation. if he continues to pay, he could unleash an avalanche of repression against dissenters. the case of ildar dadin thus becomes a new symbol of the trampling of human rights in russia.
the russian federation is a state that does not respect international law and does not respect its own law or regulates its own law as if it were not a law but only a tool empowering state bodies to arbitrarily treat its own citizens. i myself have lived under a totalitarian regime, under russian rule, so i know what i'm talking about. the case of ildar dadin and other political prisoners who are imprisoned and tortured for daring to speak their minds freely is proof of this. a state that in the 21st century systematically tortures its own citizens in this way, while being a member of the council of europe and a signatory to the convention for the protection of human rights, is not a trusted partner in international relations and the eu should make it clear to it.
ildar dadin was standing on the sidewalk holding a banner. i don't know what he could have done against russian law, when article 31 of the russian constitution says: citizens have the right to peacefully assemble without weapons, to hold meetings, meetings and demonstrations, marches. according to article 29 (1) of the russian constitution, everyone must be guaranteed freedom of thought and expression. according to paragraph 4, everyone has the right to freely seek and receive, produce, disseminate information by any lawful means. i really don't see how mr. dadin can be kept in prison in this situation. i am very pleased that the council of europe and its court have taken this case as one of their priorities and will be dealing with it. we should find some link with the committee of ministers of the council of europe within our eu policies, so that their decisions are also respected by russia.
i think it is good that this report has been adopted. i think jordan is kind of staying in the shadow of other countries affected by the refugee crisis, while having to deal with a big influx of syrian migrants on its own. i think the eu has to and must show in this way that it cares about jordan and that it somehow reflects the difficult situation that has developed there. so this macro-financial assistance is one of those steps. i think we should reflect that jordan is one of the countries in the region that we can still consider an ally, that it is a country that exhibits political stability, in which elements of religious radical islamic fundamentalism are suppressed, and that it is a country whose politicians, especially the head of state, enjoy great respect abroad. that is why i am glad that this report has been adopted, and i have of course supported it.
jordan is a country that really needs our support. i think they deserve it, and i am glad i could support this resolution. jordan is a country that lies in the shadow of these events, but because it is connected to the shadow of events in the middle east, it is directly affected by all the effects and events that occur there. it should be very important for us to support this country because it respects human rights, we have no reports of fundamental rights being violated. for this reason, i believe that it actually meets all the attributes to be eligible for eu support, and i was happy to support it.
in writing. i voted in favour of providing macro-economic assistance to jordan in the form of loans, the maximum amount of which was set at eur 200 million. this is a continuation of the assistance already provided to a country in need of a helping hand in a crisis. the international community, including the eu, committed to financial support to jordan in 2016 totalling usd 10 billion. the eu alone has already provided jordan with almost eur 1 130 million since the start of the crisis in syria. assistance shall be conditional on respect for democratic mechanisms, the rule of law and the guarantee of respect for human rights. at the same time, the emphasis is on economic stabilisation and sustainable growth of the country. jordan contributes to the fight against isil and is fighting for stability in the region, where it occupies a strategic position. now it's deeply affected by the crisis in syria. as a result of the syrian conflict and the related migration crisis, fewer tourists are travelling to the country, and with them less foreign investment. jordan's debt was over 90% of gdp at the end of last year. despite the adverse situation, jordan is the country with the highest number of refugees per capita, together with lebanon, with a total of over 1.3 million. that's roughly a two-fold increase in five years. jordan is a strategic and trusted partner that fully deserves our support.
in writing. ‒ recently, jordan has asked for international support in order to cope with the economic and financial consequences of the crisis in syria and the 1.3 million syrian refugees jordan has absorbed. i voted in favour of the proposal for new micro-financial assistance to jordan of up to eur 200 million, in the form of loans. i believe the mfa to jordan is necessary and is much needed in order to assist jordan on its path to reform, as well as to handle the effects of the war in syria. jordan remains one of the last stabilising factors in the region and an eu ally, and the eu must do everything in our power to assure that this status quo does not change.
in writing. ‒ jordan is our long-standing strategic partner in the fight against terrorism and, above all, a stable country in an otherwise unstable region. moreover, jordan has been carrying a huge burden of the refugee crisis in recent years, despite facing serious economic problems of its own. despite this fact, i consider jordan to be a country that sets an example for others with its policy of accepting refugees. i therefore support this report, as i believe that jordan more than deserves financial assistance from the european union. i personally had the opportunity to visit jordan a few months ago and to learn about the conditions in the camps and towns there. i was particularly struck by the poverty in which the refugees live. basic necessities like food, hygiene, and clothing are lacking. in view of all the problems jordan is facing, the european union should show its support for its partner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. this directive is aimed at minimum harmonisation and therefore should not preclude member states from maintaining or introducing further provisions in order to protect members and beneficiaries of occupational pension schemes, provided that such provisions are consistent with member states’ obligations under union law. this directive does not concern issues of national social, labour, tax or contract law, or the adequacy of pension provision in member states.
this is certainly not the first time we have dealt with syria in the ep, nor will it be the last. i think that's good. i think we should be watching the situation there very closely. we should also be prepared that when a new american administration takes office early next year, that american policy toward syria may change, at least some of the emphases may change. the eu, the individual member states should be able to react to this, they should be able to prepare for it. similarly, we should be careful not to go so far as to support forces that seek to disintegrate another country's territory in the fight against the so-called islamic state. i mean turkey. of course, we should also be careful not to overplay iran in its quest for regional hegemony, because that's another risk factor that's now very visible in syria.
in writing. ‒ the situation in syria is very complex and sometimes i have the impression that everyone is aware of it except the european parliament. i find the joint motion unbalanced and counterproductive. while appreciating that the text reiterates the call to the vp/hr to renew efforts to develop a common eu strategy for syria, welcoming and fully supporting the recent diplomatic initiatives of the vp/hr federica mogherini, in line with the mandate of the european council, aimed at bringing the parties to the conflict back to the negotiating table and renewing the political process in geneva, taking note of the regional negotiations that she has led together with iran and saudi arabia, and considering her work as an added value and a useful contribution to the efforts of the un special envoy staffan de mistura, the text urges all parties to the conflict to expect a new and stable settlement, and thus calls for the political negotiations to be part of the negotiations and lead to a political transition in syria, which could not be stopped and could not be obstructed by the hostile regime, and stresses that the political negotiations and the judicial process should lead to a peaceful transition, and should lead to a political transition in syria as soon as possible, and should not hinder the transition to a peaceful transition.
in writing. six years after it began, the conflict in syria is still raging and civilians continue to be - or perhaps increasingly - the victims of war atrocities and massive human rights violations. the current situation is characterised not only by continued fighting, shelling, attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure, but also by the deteriorating access of humanitarian workers to syrians. this is a deliberate denial of humanitarian aid to the civilian population, which is in total violation of international humanitarian law. the events in syria are the responsibility of both assad's forces, supported mainly by russia, but also by iran, and non-state actors in the form of armed terrorist groups. their actions can clearly be considered war crimes and crimes against humanity. it is very important that the ep pays due attention to the situation in syria, and i therefore strongly support the resolution. as stated in the resolution, and i fully agree with it, the events in syria should not be forgotten and, once the conflict in syria is over, the perpetrators of war crimes should be brought to justice and judged for their actions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in syria. regarding the humanitarian crisis in syria, the resolution calls on all actors to urgently resume talks in the aim of a cessation of hostilities. the resolution equally calls on the assad regime and putin to immediately end all attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure, to discontinue all sieges and to allow humanitarian access to the syrian people. further, the resolution asks that sanctions be imposed on putin’s regime if it continues committing war crimes in syria. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the eu and its member states have to play an important role in planning for the long-term recovery and reconstruction of syria.
i am of course sorry that a resolution has been adopted calling for the freezing of the accession talks with turkey. on the other hand, it's a very strong signal. i must say that turkey deserves our support in the fight against islamic terrorism, but also against the terrorism of kurdish separatists who are seeking to disintegrate turkey. they certainly deserve support in terms of fighting the so-called parallel state in state structures and in terms of trying to neutralize the various manifestations that could lead to the repetition of attempted military coups. on the other hand, we have to admit that what is happening, especially in relation to the media, what is happening in the academic sphere, in the judiciary, in the armed forces, in the state administration purges and arrests or detentions of a whole range of people, today it goes to tens of thousands , so this is really unacceptable and should be the subject of our increased attention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as i believe it is a right time to send a strong political message to turkish authorities that we are deeply concerned by recent developments in their country. there are signs of turkey drifting away from democratic principles which it has endorsed as a candidate country to the eu accession. we need to keep the dialogue with turkey, but have to also make clear that there are rules both sides have to respect.
in writing. the european parliament's resolution on eu-turkey relations is above all a wake-up call to the representatives of the european union and turkey that we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that tens of thousands of people are being imprisoned in turkey after the coup attempt, and hundreds of thousands more have been fired from their jobs. all without a court ruling that they did anything wrong. it is up to turkey to show that it is willing to respect european values, which are a necessary condition for joining the european union. turkey is an important partner for the eu, but the political will to cooperate has to come from both sides of the partnership, and i believe that turkey is not showing that political will as the government's actions are increasingly diverting it from its european path. i voted in favour of the motion as it calls on the commission and the member states to put forward a proposal to suspend the current negotiations on turkey's accession to the eu.
in writing. i abstained because i do not believe that calling for a temporary suspension of the ongoing accession negotiations with turkey would be the right response to the current situation in turkey. there is no doubt that the measures applied against civil servants and the media since the failed military coup attempt are disproportionately repressive and that turkey is today moving away from a state of affairs that corresponds to the values on which the union is founded. but i think that this must be emphasised by turkey in the ongoing dialogue at all levels, without allowing the turkish leadership today to turn this criticism against the union itself. the unacceptable repression is of course an obstacle to any progress in the accession negotiations, but its suspension would allow erdogan to draw a new and strong anti-european card and further reduce the hopes of a large part of the society there for a better and free functioning of the country.
in writing. i supported the european parliament resolution on eu-turkey relations, which i co-signed. turkey is dealing with a number of challenges, yet it remains a key partner for us in many ways. however, the development of president erdogan's policy is very disturbing. another example is the fact that the eu-turkey parliamentary delegation has not met for a year and a half, due to the reluctance of the turkish side. the two parliaments, the european and the turkish, are discussing issues of importance to both parties and should discuss them together. i agree that the appropriate response to current developments is to temporarily freeze turkey's eu accession negotiations and suspend payments of pre-accession aid. we need time to decide what form our future cooperation will take. i am not in favour of full membership of turkey in the eu, but i believe that privileged partnership or associate membership may be the appropriate form. today we have shown turkey that the developments it faces are pushing turkey further away from the eu. while we recommend suspending the accession negotiations, we are not calling for the end of the dialogue. it is up to turkey to choose the path of a definitive departure from the values on which the european union stands and towards which it has been moving until recently.
in writing. ‒ recent developments in turkey since the failed coup of july 2016 have pointed to the worsening human rights situation in the country, including the muzzling of free press and the detention of thousands of turkish journalists and political opponents. as a result, the motion for a resolution on eu-turkey relations calls for a temporary freeze of the ongoing accession negotiations with turkey. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, because i believe that the eu has a responsibility to honour its commitments to protecting human rights and freedom of expression, and it needs to do more to pressure turkey to reconsider its aggressive measures against its political opposition.
in writing. ‒ i supported this joint resolution of the european parliament because i consider the eu's relations with turkey to be very important, especially in addressing the current migration crisis, where cooperation with turkey plays a crucial role. i therefore voted against the motion which, in view of the current political developments in turkey, calls for the ongoing accession negotiations with turkey to be temporarily suspended. we must not, under any circumstances, turn a blind eye to what is happening in turkey. but let's look for other tools that will clearly reflect our disagreement with president erdogan's policies. suspending the negotiations will not resolve the situation and will certainly not help to address the movement of refugees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it addresses the extremely important issue of the fight against violence on women and other types of gender-based violence. we should do everything we can to make sure our strict stand on this issue is heard and visible also on the international level. therefore, i fully share the views expressed in the resolution and call on the council and commission to speed the process of negotiations on the signing and conclusion of the istanbul convention.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to present, together with my colleagues, a resolution on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. i believe this is a very serious issue, because the statistics are really frightening. violence against women and gender-based violence remains widespread in the eu, given that the 2014 european union agency for fundamental rights survey on violence against women indicates that one third of all women in europe have experienced physical or sexual violence at least once in their adult life, 20% of young women (aged 18-29 years) have experienced online harassment, one fifth of women (18%) have experienced dangerous stalking, one in twenty have been raped and more than one in ten have experienced sexual violence characterised by non-consent or the use of force. this survey also explains the fact that most acts of violence are not reported to the authorities, which shows that, in addition to administrative statistics, victimization investigations are essential to obtain a complete picture of the different types of violence committed against women. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution, which calls for further measures to encourage women who are victims of violence to report their experiences and seek help.
in writing. the international day against violence against women, which we celebrate on 25 november, should remind us once again that violence against women is not just a marginal issue, but affects millions of women - one in three women has experienced physical or even sexual violence during her lifetime. i therefore hope that the european union will accede to the istanbul convention as soon as possible.
in writing. in the european parliament today, i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. the eu should support member states in their efforts and measures to combat violence against women. the number of cases of sexual and domestic violence, which mainly affect women, is not decreasing in the eu. i therefore welcome the legislative guarantees to combat violence against women provided for by the istanbul convention and the associated commitment to take practical measures. i have some reservations about the terminology that is fixed by this convention and further allows its use for so-called gender ideology. i understand gender equality as equality between women and men and in this sense i support those measures that fulfil this concept. i think we should fight against all violence, against violence against children, including unborn children, against the elderly, in short, all violence is evil. i therefore voted against the part of the resolution which calls for the definition of violence against women as a crime at european union level and for this substance to be incorporated into the tfeu with the possibility of legislation in this area. i consider such measures to be an unnecessary and disproportionate extension of the powers of the european union, since the istanbul convention itself is already a sufficient guarantee.
in writing. i voted in favour of a resolution calling for the eu to accede to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. it is a council of europe convention covering all forms of violence, including psychological violence. the so-called istanbul convention is a key and the first legally binding international document that provides a legal framework for the contracting states. the goal of the documentary is zero tolerance for violence against women. the convention establishes definitions of related offences and calls for their criminalisation. it lays down sanctions for perpetrators and measures to prevent violence and to help victims. the czech republic is a signatory to the convention but has not yet ratified it, along with many other european countries. i hope that changes soon. in the czech republic alone, according to a 2014 survey by the eu agency for human rights, 32% of women aged 15 and over have experienced physical or sexual violence. at eu level, it was 22%, but that's not a very good result compared to 30% worldwide. i therefore commend the efforts of the ep and the commission, led by commissioner jourová, to get the convention accepted by the eu as a whole. the fight against violence against women should be a common theme. i believe that by working together and committing to common standards in this area, we could make tangible progress.
in writing. ‒ the eu’s accession to the istanbul convention will reinforce the eu’s commitment to combating violence against women, reinforce its credibility and accountability toward its international partners, and consolidate the eu’s actions targeting violence against women through a coordinated international effort with the exchange of data and documentation among signatory states. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on eu accession to the istanbul convention because i believe the eu must do everything in its power to promote and better the combat against violence against women, both within the eu, as well as in third countries.
‒ i consider violence against women to be a serious crime and one of the pressing problems of our society. violence against women is often overlooked, and it is therefore our duty to raise awareness of the problem, to focus on prevention and to fight stereotypes. i therefore support the european union's accession to the istanbul convention, which requires signatories to improve the system of protection for victims of violence, to ensure the prosecution of perpetrators or, for example, to provide extended psychological assistance. in addition, the convention should also improve the system of collecting information on different instances of violence, which will help to better understand and combat this phenomenon.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 24 november 2016 on the annual report of the european ombudsman for 2015. i appreciate the work of the european ombudsman and i appreciate that she is working to increase transparency in the ttip negotiations and is submitting proposals to the commission to that end. as vice-chair of the emis committee, i appreciated that the text of the resolution deplores the fact that the committee of inquiry on emissions from the automotive sector (emis) of the european parliament has received from the commission incomplete documentation lacking information that the commission considered irrelevant, that it calls on the commission to ensure the highest possible accuracy and full transparency in its work with regard to the documents provided, in full compliance with the principle of sincere cooperation, so that the emis committee can fully and effectively exercise its investigative powers. i also welcome the fact that the european ombudsman is continuing to investigate the so-called revolving door cases in the commission and, like the resolution, express my deep concern that former commission president barroso has been appointed adviser and non-executive chairman of goldman sachs international and i call on the ombudsman to launch a strategic inquiry into the commission's handling of the barroso revolving door case and to make recommendations for the revision of the code of conduct in line with the principles of good governance.
‒ the european ombudsman is the body to which any citizen of the union can turn if he or she has a complaint concerning maladministration by the institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the european union. it acts essentially as a bridge between citizens and institutions, which are often reluctant to interact with it in solving its problems. as this is a major contribution to increasing the transparency of a very complex administrative system, i voted in favour of the annual report of this body. emily o'reilly, who heads the institute, has worked to improve the quality of strategic research needed to improve the current situation. i personally welcome the ombudsman's efforts to address the issue of the non-public composition of the commission's expert groups and the pressure to publish in detail information on meetings with lobbyists. i am also pleased that the ombudsman is also investigating cases where former commission officials move to the private sector. the institution of the european ombudsman increases the opportunities for ordinary citizens to have a say in eu policy-making. this is extremely important at a time when more and more people are moving away from the european union and when we sometimes see a similar trend in the institutions themselves. the link between european structures and citizens must be restored. they're the ones who are here first.
in writing. ‒ the report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015 focus on the successes of the ombudsman in the promotion of transparency. the report cites the improvements in the quality of service offered to eu citizens by the european administration and its improved transparency. i voted in favour of the report because i believe in the importance of transparency as a core element in gaining the trust of eu citizens, a trust that should be ensured at all levels of the eu administration.
in writing. ‒ the i am pleased to support this report by ombudsman o'reilly, who, as in the previous year, has done a great job in this position. the report contains a lot of interesting information on initiatives and actions related to its agenda. i consider the ombudsman's office to be very important, as the possibility of having recourse to it is one of the fundamental rights of eu citizens. i also appreciate the close contact that the european ombudsman has with the eu institutions, which he helps to improve the quality of its services, and with his counterparts in the member states through the newly reformed and extended european network of ombudsmen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i am convinced that the system of vat in the eu needs modernisation and reform. we should aim at simplification of the system and development of mechanisms which can prevent frauds in vat area. we also need to improve cooperation between the member states and to enhance exchange of information.
in writing. ‒ the current vat system is imperfect and it is therefore appropriate that the commission has presented a draft vat action plan. the system needs to be modernised and simplified. the current system is not sufficiently robust against fraud, and the scale of the fraud is enormous. in the context of the fight against tax fraud, i consider it important and almost necessary to apply the mechanism of passing on the tax liability to the final payer. the wider introduction of the tax liability carry-over mechanism constitutes the third pillar of the tax administration reform in the czech republic and completely eliminates the so-called vat loophole. the european parliament's report also deals with this mechanism, which is why i voted in favour of it. cooperation within the european union, as well as with third countries, is essential for the successful fight against fraud. in particular, the rapid and regular exchange of information in the field of the internal market is an effective tool. it is therefore necessary to equip our national authorities to improve tax collection, the scope of controls and communication with each other. given the numerous revelations linking vat evasion to organised crime and serious criminal activities, including terrorist financing, the modernisation of the current system is also necessary.
in writing. ‒ the common value added tax (vat) system plays an important role in europe’s single market. intended to limit market competition distortion, today vat represents a major and growing source of revenue in the eu. the report on ‘towards a definitive vat system and fighting vat fraud’ outlines the action plan, which seeks to modernise current eu vat rules, including key principles for a future single european vat system, short—term measures to tackle vat fraud, update the framework for vat rates granting member states greater flexibility in setting them, and the simplification of vat rules for e-commerce in the context of the digital single market (dsm) strategy and for a comprehensive vat package to make life easier for smes. i voted in favour of the report because i see the value of the vat system for the eu and believe that by improving the framework, vat can further contribute to a strong single market.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because i believe it signals the european union's commitment to a determined and joint fight against vat fraud. however, i also have considerable reservations about the european public prosecutor's office. i do not think that this office would be efficient and, moreover, it represents a considerable financial cost for the eu budget. as far as taxation is concerned, it is clear that the current system is not sustainable in the long term, and i would therefore personally welcome more far-reaching changes than those suggested in this report. only a comprehensive reform can bring efficiency and fairness to the current system.
in writing. i supported the eu action plan to combat illegal trade in wild and wildlife species. the increase in crime in this area is the result of the modification of the current organised crime to seek new sources, and thus the trade in wildlife has become the fourth most profitable source of organised crime, which does not bring such risks precisely because of the low political priority. smuggling and poaching have particularly negative impacts on biodiversity, ecosystems, natural heritage and, consequently, species conservation. and that is why we are also dealing with this issue in the european parliament. because we have to realize that these kinds of crimes are contributing to the finances of organized crime all over the world. and that is why we have agreed that each eu member state should take a more significant approach to this problem and raise this type of crime to the level of other types of organised crime, and thereby prepare adequate laws and enforcement. it is also important to inform and educate the public on this issue.
in writing. ‒ wildlife trafficking is the world's fourth-largest criminal activity, with rhino horns now worth more in weight than gold. the smuggling of wildlife goods is worth around 20 billion euros annually, with devastating effects on wildlife and biodiversity across the world. further, trafficking has had major implications for the rule of law, security and the economic development of many countries. the eu, as an important destination and transit point, must urgently step up its efforts to combat this criminal activity, which is why i voted in favour of the report on the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for a report on new opportunities for small transport businesses, including business models based on closer cooperation. the report contains a number of proposals aimed at promoting opportunities for small and medium-sized transport companies. it shall support appropriate measures to combat anti-competitive practices by large integrated groups in order to address discrimination and market access restrictions. the eu needs to develop more innovative start-ups in the transport sector and encourages increased support for such companies, especially in terms of training young entrepreneurs in this field. this report also seeks to remove excessive regulation. regulation should be proportionate, simple and clear, and should not hamper the development of smes. it also supports, inter alia, new technologies for the emergence of new forms of service provision in the freight sector, such as drones, which are already a very effective tool for working in challenging conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report: smes in the transport sector play a major role in delivering effective mobility services to passengers and businesses, including at local level and in less-populated areas where they can rely on their knowledge of the market. in recent years, digitalisation and the emergence of the collaborative economy businesses contributed to blur the lines between the traditional transport operators, passengers and new business models. digital tools open unprecedented opportunities for companies in the transport sector, including for smes, provided that the framework in place leaves room for innovation. those new opportunities aim at delivering better-fit services and i believe that passengers’ interests should always be the aim of the transport policies. our role is therefore to ensure that the legislative framework provides adequate regulatory and fiscal safeguards without hampering innovation or protecting individual interests.
in writing. ‒ i support this report as it contains a number of appropriate measures to support small and medium-sized transport enterprises. these companies are currently burdened by complex regulations, national protectionism and, in many cases, unfair competition. i am convinced that the european union needs competitive and efficient transport companies. i therefore welcome the fact that the report seeks above all to remove excessive regulation. in my view, small transport enterprises can play a significant role in new business models in the future. already today, for example, we can see uber and deliveroo changing transportation in cities in many ways.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported this report as i believe there is a need for a strong, continued pressure on belarus and its official representatives when it comes to the elementary principle of democracy, rule of law and good governance. despite some improvements and openings on the side of belarus, there are still serious shortcomings, which should be addressed. being the only european country with a death penalty is one of the most critical.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in belarus, which speaks out against the undemocratic nature of the 2015 and 2016 parliamentary elections in belarus and criticises the belarusian government for not carrying out electoral reforms as part of the democratisation process. further, the resolution urges belarus to release its political prisoners and observe international laws on human rights and freedom of expression. lastly, the resolution expresses concern over the construction of the russian-sponsored belarusian nuclear power plant in ostrovets, less than 50 km from vilnius, and fears for eu security as a result.
mr president, the budget has never been and will never be able to meet all the needs and desires, but we must keep our priorities in mind. if europe is facing such fundamental challenges as security and cohesion, then we must prioritise strengthening internal and external security, and i am very pleased that the 2017 budget increases both the human and technical capacity of the security agencies. when it comes to building cohesion within the european union, we must think about young people, their education, their employment and their employment. it is therefore important that the erasmus+ programme, creative europe, europe for citizens, european voluntary service, function effectively and are sufficiently financed. these are the programmes that build and strengthen european identity. i also want to thank the commissioner for her work and wish her every success. and to ask that the european union not forget our budget.
the question posed by the blue card. dear mrs. sophie in 't veld, i'm not dutch, but until today i thought that the holes in the enamel really belonged and that it was part of it. but that's not what i wanted to ask. i just thought your analogy was a little ridiculous, but i apologize for the joke. i'd rather hear your opinion. what do you think is missing from this deal for your faction to support? what is the main reason for the disagreement, because i have not understood yet?
madam president, commissioner, i support the motion, but i would like to focus on one specific issue. it's certainly good news to hear that the majority understands that conflicts of interest are dangerous to democracy, and they want to ensure that those who have conflicts of interest are not directly involved in decision-making in specific areas of public administration. that's good news, because that's what the voters are asking us to do. the second question is how we want to achieve this. and i regret to say that i am not convinced that all the procedures proposed in the report will ensure the effective achievement of these objectives. by minimising conflicts of interest in the public sphere, we want to ensure above all that our citizens have greater confidence in their institutions. each institution has its place in the system and should have the competences corresponding to its position in the system. the european parliament is not, in my view, the institution that should be acting as an investigating institution. i think she's not naturally gifted, her success in these activities is not as guaranteed, and as a result, it could damage our reputation. i hope that my concerns are not confirmed, that greater transparency and a reduction in conflicts of interest are achieved through this proposal.
madam president, europe is facing many challenges. i would like to address today the challenge facing the regions. and that is removing the differences between regions. this is part of the cohesion policy reducing and removing disparities, this is what the eu does in its cohesion policy, but there are still a number of lagging regions that are removing this disadvantage very slowly, and actually catching up with the eu average at a very slow pace. demographic ageing in many regions and the displacement of populations are also challenges. in my view, we should create new instruments to complement the existing instruments for regional support. it's kind of an incentive system for big companies to invest in these regions, to set up businesses and projects there. i think the tools that we have are not enough anymore, and i would not want to live to see the collapse of a number of regions in two decades.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to one aspect of the roma problem which is not being addressed very much at the moment. and it's a matter of dealing with anti-roma rhetoric on the internet. the european commission mostly deals with this problem by giving money to various non-profit organizations and government agencies. i don't think this fight against anti-roma rhetoric is effective. i would personally suggest that the roma should be involved in the solution of this problem, since they are the ones who can best explain their attitudes and actions and can themselves provide positive examples. unfortunately, the anti-roma rhetoric has hardly changed in the european union countries in the last ten years, and that's because the european commission didn't understand the problem enough and tried to solve it by giving a lot of money to various agencies and non-profit organizations.
mr president, last night i spoke here about the anti-roma sentiment in the european union. but this is only one aspect of the racism and intolerance that has been taking place in the european union in recent times. this is despite the fact that the present commission has long been calling for the fight against racism, xenophobia and intolerance. i am very pleased that vera jourova has announced the creation of a high-level group to combat racism and intolerance. the eu must set an example for the rest of the world and take a leading role in this issue. but when i hear some of the speakers here, i ask myself: are we, the members of parliament, the politicians, not the ones who are causing this intolerance and this strife? shouldn't we, the members of parliament, think about how we give or don't give cause to such outbreaks, for example on the internet?
in writing. it is curious that some actions officially undertaken by the commission and other organisations in favour of minorities (whether national, religious, lgbt or other) have resulted in a strong increase in negative reactions. these reactions are directed both against the beneficiaries, or addressees, of these support measures and against the bodies or organisations which receive them, whether local, regional, national or transnational. perhaps the main problem is that in today's society, the sense of 'social responsibility' has disappeared at all levels. if such a feeling is lacking, if citizens do not consider it necessary to first fulfill their obligations to society (family, region, nation) in order to exercise their rights, then there is necessarily a disintegration of society. and we've seen this in the last 30 years, especially in the industrialized countries. this is where the negative development is particularly evident. it all starts with the fact that many politicians confuse democracy with anarchy and that even young children in kindergarten learn about their rights as a child, but no one introduces them to the fact that they also have some duties. the result is the rise of extreme political tendencies that we have seen in recent years in virtually all eu countries. the mixing of tolerance and support, as demonstrated by the european commission in a number of its proposals, only makes this situation worse.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the call for postponing the application of this regulation. it would have created too much uncertainty for both the industry and investors to have the regulation entering into force without the technical clarifications the commission has to give. i hope this one-year postponement will give the commission and the esas time to address the concerns we raised, as this is not just a question of timing. any delay will be for nothing if the eu does not put forward viable solutions for the problems, which remain to be solved. given the importance of priips for investors in the capital market union, their protection and information, we want the upcoming technical standards (rts) to remain in the spirit of the level 1 legislation, which is to provide clear, reliable and non-misleading information to investors.
in writing. i supported the legislative report at first reading postponing the application of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on key information disclosures for structured retail investment products and insurance-based investment products by 12 months, i.e. to 1 january 2018. the purpose is to provide more time for the development of regulatory technical standards specifying the specific elements of key information messages. only in this way will it be possible to increase effective investor protection and restore consumer confidence in the financial services sector by increasing transparency in the retail investment market.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation because i am in favour of broadening cooperation with african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries and this agreement suits my vision of it. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of the republic of kiribati when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for any purpose other than carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. i supported the eu-kiribati agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and citizens of kiribati. this agreement shall allow for a stay in the territory of the other contracting party of a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. kiribati is an island nation in the pacific ocean whose economy is based mainly on the services sector (66% of gdp) and agriculture, namely fisheries, which accounts for 25% of gdp. tourism is limited, with about 4,000 people visiting kiribati annually. i believe that this agreement can have a positive impact and make it easier for entrepreneurs to travel, to make it easier for investment and to encourage tourism. kiribati has made important progress in fulfilling its international human rights obligations. i believe that the abolition of the visa requirement is a further step towards deepening political dialogue on a number of issues, particularly human rights, which i consider to be a priority.
‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the solomon islands and the european union is a concrete outcome of the deepening of relations in the framework of cooperation between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states and the eu. this is a significant step in strengthening political dialogue and deepening economic and cultural relations, which have been developing steadily since the signing of the cotonou agreement in 2000.
in writing. i supported the eu-solomon islands agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and solomon islands. this agreement shall allow nationals to stay in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement is the result of the deepening of relations between the european union and the solomon islands as established in the cotonou agreement. i believe that the abolition of the visa requirement for short stays will strengthen economic and cultural relations, but also bring the people of europe and the pacific closer together and allow citizens to benefit fully from this partnership.
in writing. ‒ the services sector of the federated states of micronesia generates 74% of their gdp. i consider it important to abolish short-stay visas with a period of 90 days for a maximum of 180 consecutive days between micronesia and the eu as this will facilitate the movement of entrepreneurs and investors. i supported this agreement because i believe it has the potential to stimulate the economy of micronesia, especially in the area of tourism.
in writing. at the plenary session, i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the federated states of micronesia on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement establishes a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and of the federated states of micronesia who stay in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any purpose, with the exception of persons travelling for the purpose of pursuing an economic activity. this agreement constitutes the concrete outcome of the deepening of relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia, which are of great political importance under the cotonou agreement, and is at the same time a further means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and of deepening political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. visa-free travel can have a positive impact on facilitating business travel, facilitating investment and encouraging tourism.
in writing. he supported the abolition of the short-stay visa requirement for citizens of the european union and micronesia. this agreement shall allow eu and micronesian citizens to stay in the territory of the other party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the economy of the federated states of micronesia is based primarily on the services sector, which contributes 74% of gdp. i believe that the introduction of visa-free short-stay travel will make it easier for entrepreneurs to travel, facilitate investment, encourage tourism and strengthen economic links between businesses. micronesia also emphasizes human rights, which are guaranteed by the country's constitution.
in writing. ‒ i think that simplifying travel for businesspeople to tuvalu can facilitate investment and boost tourism in general. that is why i supported the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between eu and tuvalu. i hope that it will have positive effects on tuvalu’s economy and will furthermore encourage direct contacts between european citizens and tuvaluans.
in writing. i supported the eu-tuvalu agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for eu citizens and tuvalu citizens. the purpose of this agreement is to stay in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. i see this agreement as a further step in the deepening of eu-tuvalu relations, following on from the cotonou agreement, in which the eu committed itself, as part of its sustainable development strategy, to reducing and eventually eradicating poverty and progressively deepening the cooperation and integration of african, caribbean and pacific states into the world economy. i believe that this agreement can also have a positive impact on the development of tourism and services and thus on the overall economic development of this island state, which is still one of the poorest countries in the pacific region.
in writing. ‒ eu trade relations with the republic of marshall islands are very limited and they surely have the potential for development. the republic of marshall islands has few natural resources, its economy is based primarily on the service sector as well as some fishing and agriculture and its imports far exceed exports. the eu is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 pacific countries, including the republic of marshall islands. i believe that the visa waiver agreement reaffirms the union’s commitment to strengthen its partnership with this country and that is why i supported this recommendation.
in writing. i supported the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and the marshall islands. the purpose of this agreement is to establish a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and of the marshall islands who may stay in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the republic of the marshall islands is a stable presidential democracy in free association with the united states. i consider this island country to be a relevant and trusted partner and therefore see no reason for further postponement of the abolition of the visa requirement.
in writing. i supported the report which, among other things, points to the need to ensure that member states optimise the use of existing eu funding, in particular all five european structural and investment funds, for investments in the prevention of natural disasters. in this regard, it is important to develop synergies between the different funds and union policies in order to prevent the consequences of natural disasters as much as possible and, where the eu solidarity fund is used, also to ensure the consolidation and long-term sustainable development of reconstruction projects. it is appropriate to add that the eu solidarity fund provides assistance for non-insurable losses and does not compensate for private losses, while long-term measures such as sustainable reconstruction or economic development or prevention activities are eligible for funding from other union instruments, in particular the european structural and investment funds.
‒ in my opinion, the european union solidarity fund (eusf) is one of the most significant symbols of european solidarity in times of emergency. as a social democrat, i am very pleased that such an institution has existed here since 2002. it is also necessary that the institute be as efficient as possible and/or be able to deal with requests from entities facing different types of natural disasters as quickly as possible. this challenge is made all the more urgent by the fact that many natural disasters have occurred in areas most affected by the economic crisis. i would also like to recall that, of course, the greatest possible transparency in the allocation of the funds allocated must be maintained. at the same time, long-term investment in projects that will prevent possible future disasters in the same territory is needed, which can be supported, for example, by the introduction of ex ante conditionalities when setting up cohesion policy financing mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ i support this report which assesses the use of the european union solidarity fund. the fund has been running for almost 15 years and i think it is a great example of how money from the eu budget can directly help european citizens. the fund can support member states directly in the event of major natural disasters, but also to respond to smaller regional disasters. in the future, i see room for improvement, in particular in better aligning the functions of the solidarity fund and the cohesion funds. it is the cohesion funds that should take into account risk prevention aspects for infrastructure projects, which can help to reduce the costs associated with necessary repairs after a disaster.
in writing. ‒ i voted against both proposals which would subject the entry into force of the ‘umbrella’ agreement on the protection of personal information relating to criminal offences between the eu and the us, because i do not see any added value in postponing and obstructing the overall process. i believe that the agreement has its merits, it corresponds to what the ep asked for several years ago and it should now be implemented.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the report on the protection of personal information relating to criminal offences between the eu and the us because i am convinced there is need to have a sort of ‘umbrella’ over all the data protection clauses included in all the eu-us agreements to date. also, and i find personally very important, the agreement brings the possibility for the citizens to seek judicial redress in case there is a breach in data protection by one of the parties concerned. finally, i welcome that public independent oversight bodies which will ensure the data protection rules are respected are part of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the umbrella agreement establishes a framework of data protection principles and safeguards in case of transfers of personal information for criminal law purposes between the us and the eu and its member states. it would supplement the data protection provisions in existing instruments such as bilateral agreements as mutual legal assistance in criminal matters treaty, agreement on enhancing cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime and terrorist screening information agreement/arrangement as well as the eu-us pnr agreement and eu-us tftp agreement. the umbrella agreement provides a high level of personal data protection and that is why i voted in favour of it. i see it as an absolute necessity to consent to this umbrella agreement now. if we have agreements such as pnr where the transfer of data forms an integral part, we must have sufficient provisions to underpin how and when that data is transferred between the us and the eu.
‒ i consider the transfer and receipt of personal data to be a very complex subject, where the right balance must be found between security and the rights of the individual. i believe that the eu-us agreement on the protection of personal information relating to criminal offences is an example of how to preserve the rights of individuals as much as possible without compromising security. i would like to emphasise that the agreement only regulates the treatment of personal data that states already obtain under existing agreements, and does not therefore broaden the scope of the information shared. this agreement guarantees a high level of individual freedoms without compromising security. it shall clearly state how personal data must be handled in order to prevent misuse. it also gives citizens the opportunity to seek judicial redress in the event of wrongdoing, which i personally consider very important. this agreement does not regulate the exchange of data between national authorities, as these are outside the eu's remit.
in writing. i fully support, as does our ecr group, the conclusion of this interim trade agreement between the eu and ghana. although neither ghana nor the eu anticipated the need to conclude a bilateral agreement, the slow pace of the conclusion of the west african regional agreement (ecowas) has led them to do so. the interim agreement will allow ghanaian exporters to retain the privilege of duty-free access to the european market for a period during which ghana will grow economically and consolidate its economic situation. in this context, i would like to emphasise the development aspect of this trade agreement: the eu is an important place for ghanaian products to be exported, which is important for the creation of added value in the country. this is not only beneficial for european exporters (80% of eu exports should be gradually liberalised) but also for ghana, where exports to the eu represent around 20% of total foreign trade. the best development policy is free trade.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposed interim eu-ghana economic partnership agreement. i see the adoption of this document as a logical step, as the planned regional agreement between the eu and west africa must be suspended and therefore the interim agreement will allow ghana to continue to enjoy the privilege of duty-free access to the european market. ghana is a leading exporter of agricultural products and other commodities within the west african region, and the eu is an important export market for ghana. it is in the interest of the european union that the countries of the west african region strengthen their competitiveness, improve the business environment and strengthen customs cooperation. i'm convinced this deal will definitely help.
in writing. i supported the proposal to increase the european budget for 2016 in the area of security and citizenship, as the eu needs to be able to respond adequately to unforeseen events. the events of this year and last year have shown us how undervalued these budgetary chapters have been. the current amount for security and citizenship expenditure has already been exhausted from the budget as a result of the needs arising from the migration, refugee and security crisis. it should be stressed that this is not an increase in the budget for this year, but only a transfer of an unused amount of eur 240,1 million from the administrative reserve.
in writing. ‒ in may and june this year, the lower bavarian region was hit by a series of flash floods, a major natural disaster that affected tens of thousands of inhabitants and even claimed seven lives. the floods also caused extensive property damage, particularly to local agricultural businesses, damaged local infrastructure including water and power supplies, and even nearly destroyed the town of simbach. i am very saddened by the plight of the people affected and i am pleased that the european parliament has approved substantial financial assistance to the affected region, totalling over eur 30 million, with the bavarian authorities estimating the total damage at around eur 1.26 billion. on the other hand, i am glad that the eu has such an effective instrument at its disposal as the solidarity fund, and that in this particular case too the release of funds has had broad support from all political groups.
in writing. i supported the agreement of the ep and the council on the 2017 budget, knowing that most of the ep's priorities, such as additional funds to support smes, science and research, transport infrastructure and the youth guarantee programme, were defended. however, in addition to this undoubted success, it is worth noting that there are some cuts in the global europe chapter, namely in the budget line for emergency measures, asylum and migration and the european fund for sustainable development, which can be explained by the fact that it has not yet been formally established. but the cuts to asylum and migration send a bleak political signal. i personally regard these areas as a priority and, in line with the assurances given, i expect to see a renewal of these appropriations next year in the form of an amending budget.
in writing. in the plenary session of 1 december i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in italy following the earthquakes. between august and october 2016, three devastating earthquakes struck the central apennines, killing 290 people, injuring more than 400 and displacing tens of thousands. the last of these earthquakes, on october 30, was the strongest recorded in italy since 1980. the series of earthquakes and the devastation they have caused have had a severe economic impact. it is therefore necessary to coordinate properly the sustainable regeneration of the areas in order to recover the economic and social losses caused. this proposal will allow for accelerated financing at the highest level from european union funds and the necessary assistance to the italian authorities to help ensure decent living conditions for those who have lost their homes. prevention should be an increasingly important phase of disaster management and its social importance should increase.
in writing. in a short span of less than three months, italy was struck by three devastating earthquakes, which left hundreds dead and injured, tens of thousands displaced, and vast amounts of property damaged. we must remember that the european union solidarity fund only contributes to the expenses related to the follow-up and emergency situation and that member states at risk of natural disasters must also spend large amounts on preventive measures. i therefore supported the request that the commission draw up a proposal to amend the relevant rules so that member states' expenditure on investments in reconstruction and earthquake prevention measures is not subject to union restrictions, for example so that tax benefits granted by member states to citizens affected by a disaster are not considered to be public support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe there is a case for a more transparent, more efficient and better way to ensure independence of commissioners and limit their potential conflicts of interests. as some recent cases show, there are occasions where former commissioners can switch careers respecting fully the current code of conduct, raising at the same time some serious ethical concerns. that worries me, as it also undermines the eu’s credibility in the eyes of its citizens. we need to see this problem not only from a purely legal point of view, but to take into account a broader perspective, and that is why i think that the code of conduct as it stands now should be revised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i strongly support transparency in the european union institutions and i believe that the european commission and its commissioners should lead by example. the report aims to facilitate a reform of the procedures relating to commissioners’ declaration of interest to assure the maximum accountability and transparency of a commissioner’s fully independent performance of his/her mandate. it defines conflict of interest and promotes reform of the code of conduct for commissioners from 2011 to extend the post-office employment restriction to two years.
in writing. i supported the report, which responds, inter alia, to the finding that the current code of conduct for members of the commission does not adequately codify the requirement under article 245 tfeu that members of the commission observe the duty to behave with integrity and discretion when accepting certain appointments or benefits after their term of office, both during and after their term of office. it is unacceptable that the commission does not regularly report on the implementation of the code of conduct for members of the commission, in particular as regards their declarations of interests. it is appropriate to consider revising the code of conduct in order to provide for the possibility of complaints or sanctions in the event of serious misconduct within the meaning of articles 245 and 247 tfeu.
in writing. ‒ several current cases, such as the case of former european commission president barroso, have shown us how important it is that senior european officials do not get into a conflict of interest. i am therefore pleased that the committee on legal affairs is now tasked with a thorough review of the property relations of the candidates for european commissioners and with recommending that the commissioners negotiate a remedy by proposing the termination of the problematic property relations. it is also good that the property relations will be controlled during the execution of the mandate, thus avoiding further potential conflicts of interest. the committees responsible should also deal much more closely with property issues in the context of hearings of commissioners-designate. i am also pleased that the juri parliamentary committee will now have the power to decide in serious cases that a candidate cannot be a european commissioner if he or she cannot meet the requirements of the code of conduct.
in writing. ‒ i am voting for the report as a whole, but i have some doubts. i fully agree that the legal affairs committee is the body that should assess the existence of a potential conflict of interest and then also formulate recommendations for its elimination. however, i do not think that this committee is competent to assess whether the information submitted by the commissioner-designate is true or not. the extent to which the conflict of interest should be limited and how it should be understood in relation to the entrusted portfolio is also open to debate. the problems of interpreting the little detail in the provisions on the assessment of the financial interests of commissioners have been problematic, for example, during the last appointment of the european commission, and i therefore believe that this statement will help to clarify the whole situation and thus allow a better assessment of the commissioner candidates.
in writing. seas and oceans are considered an important element of the earth's ecological stability. sadly, in recent years many places have become garbage dumps. tens of tonnes of plastic are carried by rivers around the world every year, and ocean currents concentrate these 'treasures' on large floating islands. reports say that the area of the garbage island in the atlantic ocean is about the size of france. as the interests of gas and oil producers shift from land to sea, the likelihood of their facilities crashing increases. in the far north, in particular, the effects of such an accident are felt for a long time in nature. in the south, nature 'helps' to deal with the disaster much more quickly, but the losses from tourism are even worse for the surrounding countries. in both cases, the fishing industry is affected very significantly. it is good that the european commission is trying to harmonise the approach to liability for damage caused. only by coordinating legislation in the field to the maximum extent possible, ideally by introducing a globally applicable standard, can significant progress be made. the report rightly calls on the commission to carry out the necessary studies and data collection and calls on the member states to cooperate. for the reasons stated above, i welcome and support the report.
in writing. ‒ at the plenary session on 1 december, i voted in favour of the report on liability, compensation and financial security for offshore oil and gas activities. more than 90% of oil and 60% of natural gas extracted in europe comes from offshore activities. they are currently taking place or are planned in the territorial waters of 18 member states. offshore oil and gas operations are conducted in increasingly extreme conditions and therefore additional measures are needed to effectively guarantee safety before an accident occurs that would have serious and devastating consequences for the environment and the economy of marine and coastal areas. further harmonised eu-level rules on liability, compensation and financial security have prevented future accidents on the basis of the precautionary and preventive principles, as well as the 'polluter pays' principle and the principles of sustainability.
offshore oil and gas exploration and production is increasingly taking place in extreme conditions and locations and can have significant to devastating impacts on marine ecosystems, the environment and the economies of maritime areas. it's a very sensitive subject, given the enormous power of the mining industry. i was therefore pleased to support the report which calls for the independence of the competent authorities in the member states to be guaranteed and which calls on the commission to establish uniform rules for determining liability, financial security and possible compensation. so far, these rules vary quite considerably between member states, and i think that is why it is necessary to create a uniform european framework based on the models of the most advanced countries. the definition of criminal offences and penalties for infringements of safety rules in coastal waters should, of course, be harmonised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe that access to energy is one of the key drivers for development in all regions. it is necessary not only for securing a decent level of life for citizens, but also for businesses to thrive and grow. in regions where there is lack of energy infrastructure, there is a way to develop renewable sources of energy and help to shift to sustainable ways of energy production. the eu has to be able to give more financial support to those countries where access to energy is critical.
i am convinced that the commission's 'energy for development' initiative to provide access to sustainable energy for an additional 500 million people in developing countries by 2030 needs to be fully supported, by building technical expertise in developing countries and promoting capacity building and technology transfer, recognising that energy is an essential enabler for a number of other areas such as health, education, clean water, agriculture, telecommunications and internet connectivity. at the same time, there is a need to better coordinate the various international initiatives aimed at promoting access to energy from sustainable sources in developing countries, especially in africa.
i believe that access to affordable, sustainable and safe energy is essential to meet basic human needs and rights such as access to drinking water, healthcare, education or heat. energy is a key driver of development and therefore a crucial security and geopolitical issue, and access to energy can very easily become the cause of serious conflicts. there is a clear and very strong link between security and energy issues. the report calls on the commission to take concrete steps to improve access to energy, while monitoring and publishing the results. we also need to address specific procedural innovations. i would cite the potential construction of a dam as an example. any such construction for which funding is approved must comply with the world commission on dams' guidelines and five basic criteria: fairness, efficiency, multi-stakeholder decision-making, sustainability and accountability. i am a long-time advocate for the adoption of highly efficient, sustainable and energy-efficient technologies, which can be a key tool for long-term solutions to the problem of access to energy resources, especially in developing countries.
in writing. i supported the report which, finding that the use of the european order for payment procedure varies significantly between member states, draws the need for practical steps to be taken to further inform citizens, businesses, lawyers and other relevant parties about the availability of the european order for payment procedure in cross-border cases and its application and benefits. in addition, it would be desirable to provide citizens, and in particular smes, with assistance in using existing legal instruments to enforce cross-border claims within the framework of relevant eu legislation. in the future, it would be appropriate to consider the possibility of submitting applications for european orders for payment electronically. they appreciate the positive mention of the czech republic in the context of allowing applicants to submit their applications in languages other than the domestic official language of the state concerned.
mr president, i would like first of all to apologise to the commissioner as i had to leave the moment she was about to speak since i was chairing our alde internal working structures meeting. i am back now to make a few remarks. we most often speak across the political spectrum, across the member states, about the need to complete the internal market. we nearly all agree on that. the moment we can complete the internal market, really integrate the markets, that’s the time we suddenly forget this political rhetoric and we find all the excuses and we really think that the national interests are those of the historic national railway companies. well i must say one thing: if these companies are not able to compete between themselves then we can hardly expect that the railway can compete vis-à-vis other modes of transport. and i think we would all agree that the most sustainable mode of transport is the railway. we are making certain progress. i mean if i look at the psos i would have expected a bigger step, but it is a step and i think that we should all support it in order to comply with what are our interests, but also our responsibility vis-à-vis the focal point, and that is the consumer. one remark concerned the social standards. first of all, some of what is being said here today i have not heard in the trilogue itself nor in the shadows’ negotiations – at least from some colleagues – but i need to say that the social standards are respected. look at the text and what it says. we fully respect the social standards and the national legislation, and in fact nobody should have any obstacle in securing, through the social standards on a national level, the quality that we want the workers to have and what we expect. a very final remark. we have a little hypocrisy when we say that it is only the national historic companies which can secure the social standards. this is not absolutely true, and we will definitely support the pso.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that after three years of discussion on this railway package, there are still conflicting views. we expect these measures to be the basis for the liberalisation of railway markets and the provision of access to infrastructure for new railway operators in all member states. the opening of the railway market to competition should increase the pressure on railway companies to survive in a competitive environment and thus also to attract new investments. these measures should aim at improving the quality of services provided to consumers, reducing the cost of rail services and improving the efficiency of public financing of the sector. the separation of railway infrastructure managers from railway undertakings was carried out by the czech republic several years ago. it has meant the entry of new companies and also improved service quality, but i must point out, provided there are also public and state services in rail transport, especially on less lucrative routes. all these measures should lead to price reductions, savings and also, as far as tenders are concerned, to subsidised connections. however, we will only succeed in creating a competitive railway environment if we create a level playing field for railway undertakings in europe.
mr president, i also welcome the increase in legal transparency in the new draft regulation, the effort to achieve better harmonisation, of course, and there are a number of small improvements which can be welcomed. i also welcome the fact that there is more agreement on this port package than on the previous one, the railway package. however, there are risks. i am not entirely sure that the principle of subsidiarity has been respected. indeed, there is already a great deal of competition between ports. will this competitiveness not be jeopardised by this package? it is only a question and i think the commissioner should respond to it because such remarks have been made repeatedly in the debate. it is important to me that we try to encourage investment in ports, our seaports are undoubtedly the gateway to our internal markets, but we should not restrict them by unprepared legislation.
for the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, i support the motion for a resolution tabled. we face great security challenges today, but i think we need to be even more vigilant about respecting basic human rights today. ensuring security is often associated with restrictions on human rights. but i do not think that human rights need to be severely restricted to ensure security. the european union must be able to ensure both security and respect for fundamental rights together. i think she's well equipped to do so and has no reason to back down from that goal. hate crimes, which have unfortunately recently been increasing within the european union, are a violation of both fundamental human rights and the right to security. finally, i believe that the quality of respect for the first and second generation of human rights should be the main focus, since these fundamental human rights are the precondition for all other human rights. i would also expect that the report would give more attention to the issue of freedom of religion, also in the light of the manifestations of christianophobia which we have unfortunately also seen in europe in recent years.
ladies and gentlemen, the cultural and creative sectors are becoming increasingly important in today's single market. especially today, this sector has become a door to the future. its importance will, in my view, continue to grow. the cultural and creative sectors not only contribute to the creation of new jobs for young people, to the creation of new micro-enterprises, as the previous speakers have already mentioned, but they can also trigger new investments, for example by building bridges between digital technologies, science, human creativity and the arts. these branches have great potential to further develop our common european cultural heritage. the european commission should therefore look at ways of developing these sectors further, making them strategic objectives and priorities, and ensuring that they are adequately funded. i therefore support and appreciate the appeal of this report in this respect.
madam president, the european parliament's report on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries deals with the same problems we are dealing with in the european union, but on a completely different level. women in these eastern partnership countries face much greater problems of economic dependency, unemployment, discrimination, lack of education and, possibly, problems in reconciling family and professional life. the main objective is to improve the political and economic situation in these countries. it is women who are often involved in civil society and are effectively helping to bring about the necessary reforms. i had the opportunity to meet ukrainian women and see the work of their non-profit organizations. the report rightly emphasises the need for greater involvement of women in transformation processes. where this involvement has taken place, the results have been very positive, such as in moldova, the undp project 'women in politics' that the report mentions.
madam president, i would like to return to a very important subject, namely turkey and the kurdish question. we are aware of the very complex external and internal security situation that turkey has to deal with. however, we cannot agree with the repressive measures taken by the turkish government to persecute opposition leaders and intelligentsia, especially around the kurdish hdp party. the kurdish question has become very acute in the context of the events following the failed coup in july, as turkey intensifies its repression against the kurds. turkey is currently holding two czechs, accusing them of terrorism just for helping syrian kurds fight isis. we met today in the european parliament with the sakharov prize winners. they're two yazidi of kurdish origin. would turkey put them in jail for pkk links? i hope not. the turkish logic on this issue is therefore unacceptable. i am for cooperation and dialogue with turkey, but it must not be dialogue with the deaf.
madam president, i would like to comment on the policy of austerity in my minute. this is a policy that should touch land, water and soil. i'd like to stop at that last value. i would like to take a minute to support land ownership by the smallest farmers. i think there should be a diversification of land ownership to the benefit of the smaller farmers. there should be no sealing of land ownership to the benefit of the largest agronomic and other enterprises. in my opinion, we should approach land ownership very restrictively, even in terms of land acquisition. i am not calling for the european union to devise new legislation for land acquisition, but to clearly guide the member states on what measures to regulate the land market are permissible within the four fundamental freedoms of the european union. we should really say that.
(gue/ngl). madam president, this package is one of a series of legislative measures that we have been waiting for over the last year and a half and which are fundamentally changing the face of the european union's current energy sector. however, it is critical that we successfully link this mega-bucket, in particular with the legislative texts already underway on the ets, effort sharing and land use, land-use change and forestry (lulucf). only the energy savings target was changed and slightly increased. but we cannot speak of great ambition here, because this summer we in the european parliament asked the commission for more. we're going to have to work on that, because the old cliché is that the best energy is the energy we don't have to produce. increased energy savings can save thousands of lives and bring billions of euros in additional revenue if properly addressed. but here i come to the biggest weakness of the text, which is supposed to provide clean energy for all europeans. because elevated ambition has not yet gone hand in hand with protecting the weakest. the commission promises to put the consumer at the heart of its new approach, but the package lacks concrete steps to tackle energy poverty. with increased energy efficiency, the enormous costs that will be imposed on energy suppliers are at the risk of being borne by the consumer, and the most vulnerable are the most vulnerable. we have a huge amount of work to do, and we should go back to the basics, that affordable energy must be the right of every citizen of the european union, and we should just build on that.
commissioner, madam president, the winter energy package was supposed to be a major breakthrough in energy policy and i still believe it could be. the question remains, however, whether it will live up to the expectations that are placed in it. the outcome will also depend on how we in the european parliament manage to push through the package of measures that we proposed in the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive and in many other reports that we have adopted over the past two years. i am glad that there are proposals on the table, whether they seem less ambitious or more ambitious to some, but in my opinion they are realistic. i would like to focus specifically on the area of energy efficiency, which i consider to be one of the most crucial aspects of the future set-up of the entire energy market. i don't suppose there's anyone who's ever questioned the importance of energy conservation. reducing consumption can reduce our dependence on imports, strengthen our energy security and help households at risk of energy poverty.
madam president, commissioners, i consider the winter energy package to be one of the most important, but also very risky, materials for the coming decades. energy has become an essential part of people's lives, everyone needs to be lit and heated at affordable market prices, uncorrupted, unpriced by various political interests. as much as i agree with much of the text, i find it very problematic to set binding energy efficiency targets of 30% as an administrative decision. if we overreach, the impact on safety, investment costs and the environment can be completely opposite and destructive. any increase above 27% shall be supported by a comprehensive impact study which objectively justifies the proposed level of increase. the energy union must be the driving force for an open energy market that will help the competitiveness of member states and industry.
madam president, commissioners, such a proposal will always provoke reactions – it is too ambitious, lacking ambition, and so on. what i am looking forward to seeing is whether this is complex proposal which will do away with distortions of the market and we will have an energy union and a functioning internal market. we always speak in favour of completion of the internal market, but then with the proposals and the deliberations in parliament we gradually dilute it. for me, the absolutely key issue is whether a company will find it viable to invest in the energy market. that is key. once that happens, we will have the functionality of the internal market, so issues like the design of the energy market, issues of price zones, issues of capacity mechanisms and so on, these have to be assessed in a complex way and then we might find out whether the target xy is ambitious or realistic or not, but as i say, the functionality is the absolute key issue and we will assess it on the basis of the impact assessments, for sure.
in writing. the european commission is committed to an ambitious target of reducing co2 emissions by at least 40% by 2030. it assumes that this can be achieved by involving three programmes. firstly, it is about increasing energy efficiency, secondly, it is about leading the way in the development of renewable energy sources and thirdly, it is about a new customer relationship. the targets are very ambitious. in the field of science and research, particularly in photovoltaics and hydrogen, a rapid fundamental breakthrough is in the offing. in photovoltaics, basic research shows the possibility of finding new chromophores. their efficiency could increase the energy produced by photovoltaic panels from the current 11% to about 22%. if the european commission's target of having 1% of energy in hydrogen by 2020, as confirmed by the ep, is met, we can expect a rapid expansion of the hydrogen economy. electric and hydrogen buses are currently being tested in several large eu cities. a number of places are working to improve the storage capacity of hydrogen. it will also be very challenging to achieve the connection of small producers to the grid, not only as consumers but also as suppliers of electricity. another effective step may be to increase the production of electricity from nuclear power. let us hope that these ambitious goals are quickly backed up by concrete action at all levels.
rapporteur to the committee on legal affairs. mr president, commissioner, i support the proposal for a revision of the rules of procedure, because i believe that it is a good result of the work of my colleagues, in particular those of the committee on constitutional affairs, whom i would like to thank for their cooperation with the committee on legal affairs. our committee has delivered its opinion on the revision of the rules of procedure, in which it has dealt mainly with the institutions which it uses in the context of its powers, such as the discussion of immunities or the application of the principle of subsidiarity. i can say that in the main, we have succeeded in proposing meaningful and effective changes in these areas. but i think that ultimately it is in the interests of all of us to use the institutions and the rules of procedure on a substantive basis. i would therefore like to ask that the committee on legal affairs alone be left to assess whether the principle of subsidiarity is being respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i support a closer partnership between algeria and the european union. this agreement will help to deepen the cooperation built on the bases of the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states from 2002 with common objectives of setting the appropriate framework for political dialogue and encouraging integration of the maghreb countries by promoting trade and cooperation within the maghreb group and between it and the eu. i believe that algeria’s participation in union programmes will lead to the expansion of harmonious economic and social relations and promote its trade in terms of establishing the conditions for the gradual liberalisation of trade in goods, services and capital and facilitate human exchanges.
in writing. i voted against it. i don't want algeria to participate in the european union's subsidy programs at the expense of our taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ today we voted to give our consent to the framework agreement between the eu and the people's democratic republic of algeria on the general principles for the participation of algeria in union programmes. the objective of the protocol is to lay down financial and technical rules enabling algeria to participate in certain union programmes. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the costs of the european union agency for asylum and the european border and coast guard agency, in particular the costs of the european border and coast guard agency, the european border and coast guard agency and the european border and coast guard agency. the commission notes that the algeria authorities have not provided any evidence that the algeria authorities have not provided any evidence that the algeria authorities have not provided any evidence that the algeria authorities have not provided any evidence that the algeria authorities have not provided any evidence that the algeria authorities have not provided any evidence that the algeria authorities have not provided any evidence that the algeria authorities have not provided any evidence that the algeria authorities have not provided any evidence that the algeria authorities have not provided any evidence that the algeria authorities have not provided any evidence that the algeria authorities have not provided any evidence that the algeria authorities have provided any evidence that the algeria authorities have not provided any evidence that the algeria authorities have not provided any evidence that the algeria authorities have not provided any evidence. i agree with this option for algeria, which is why i supported the report in the final vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the eu-algeria framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of algeria in union programmes. the framework agreement lays down the financial and technical rules allowing algeria to participate in certain union programmes. algeria is an important partner of the eu in the north africa region, playing an important role in stabilising the situation in north africa and in the fight against terrorism. this framework agreement represents a further step in the deepening of relations between the eu and algeria. it is in the best interests of europe and its security and stability to continue to work closely with that country.
in writing. ‒ the eu-algeria framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of algeria in union programmes is a tool to strengthen the relationship between the eu and algeria in areas including politics, the economy, trade, cooperation and humanitarian aid. i voted in favour of the report on the association between the eu and algeria, as algeria represents a key strategic and economic partner for the eu and both parties will stand to largely benefit from closer and more comprehensive ties.
in writing. ‒ i support the framework agreement on algeria's participation in eu programmes as presented. african countries need to strengthen their competitiveness, improve their business environment and improve their political culture. in addition, the european union is algeria's main trading partner and therefore algeria should be able to participate in eu programmes. i am convinced that this agreement will help to improve both the economic and the political situation in algeria.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation because i am in favour of higher standards of protection of the marine environment. i consider the total ban on bottom trawling below 800 metres a necessary measure in order to preserve the marine ecosystem in eu waters. i am glad that the european parliament took a common step towards proper regulation and the development of industrial fisheries. i hope that this ban, together with the identification of fishing zones and mandatory impact assessments, will help to avoid further destruction of deep-sea marine life. the european union should maintain its position of the key player leading by example in the area of environmental protection.
in writing. i got held up. since the czech republic has no sea, i leave the decision on the regulation of fisheries to the member states concerned.
in writing. deep-sea fishing is another of the huge environmental problems associated with the rate at which humanity is depleting natural resources. human encroachment on ecosystems is resulting in an unprecedented loss of biodiversity and loss of ecosystem services that are vital to us as human beings. in the last few decades, the intensity of deep-sea fishing has increased exponentially, a technique called bottom trawling, where fishing vessels drag nets along the bottom of the sea, often the size of a football field, turning the seabed into a virtual desert. deep-sea ecosystems have a vital impact on life in the sea and thus on the planet, and their unchecked plundering may very soon have dire consequences. i am therefore pleased that after lengthy negotiations parliament and the council have managed to reach agreement on this proposal, which aims to reduce the destructive effects of fishing in international waters in the north-east atlantic by defining a specific area in which deep-sea fishing will take place. the agreement also sets a limit of 800 metres for the depths at which fishing is permitted and proposes sanctions for vessels that violate the deep-sea fishing regulations. some vessels will also be obliged to take on board scientific observers to continue collecting data and researching the effectiveness of the regulation, which i personally consider very important.
in writing. ‒ the deep sea is the largest habitat on earth, which hosts biologically significant ecosystems, playing an important role in the ocean ecosystem. deep-sea species have become vulnerable as a result of overfishing and unsustainable practices, in conjunction with the development of industrial fisheries in the eu, which have led to the depletion and destruction of marine habitat. i voted in favour of the report on the regulation establishing specific conditions for deep-sea fishing because it will strengthen the protection of deep-sea habitats through the imposition of stricter conditions for said fishing, protecting one of the eu’s most important natural resources.
mr president, although i agree with the substance of what mr pospíll said, particularly as regards the oral explanations, i have decided to support the report. there is no doubt that the individual rights of members are being violated, they are simply being lost. for me, this is to some extent offset only by the fact that this report introduces entirely new, transparent institutions into the european parliament's decision-making and action. and many of these individual rights are, to some extent, very illusory. today, i think, an unattached member of the european parliament has very few rights, and it is much more advantageous and better for him to be a member of a particular group. for various reasons, such as the need to increase transparency and, of course, to limit the debate to questions that some members have indeed abused, i have decided to support this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the amendments to parliament’s rules of procedure in order to have a more streamlined and efficient working environment in which meps can represent their citizens in an even more transparent manner. in addition, we have strengthened the sanctions provisions in order to ensure members cannot abuse their positions. for example if the member is not complying with the rules of conduct the president can go so far as to withdraw one or more posts held by the member concerned. i am of the view that these arrangements will lead to the european parliament working in a more transparent manner.
in writing. ‒ as the representative of the only directly elected eu body, i could not support the report on the overall revision of the european parliament's rules of procedure in the vote, as it introduces so-called 'fast-track' laws. i believe that issues such as the common asylum policy, the schengen entry registration system, the juncker investment package reform, the common corporate tax base or the controversial firearms directive should not be dealt with behind closed doors. this will only strengthen the influence of the european lobby and reduce transparency, thereby distancing us from the eu citizens.
in writing. i voted against it. the ep's rules of procedure lay down the rules for voting, the formation of committees, interpellation, etc. rules of procedure shall be stable and shall be subject to change only gradually. to work, they have to be experienced. this is a large set of changes which do not represent a clear move for the better, and therefore, as a precautionary measure, i prefer the current rules of procedure. i also disagree with the new article 47a, which allows committees to agree 'in coordination with the council and the commission to speed up the legislative process'. i think that's an unacceptable mixing of legislative and executive powers.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report which proposes a general revision of the european parliament's rules of procedure. the report proposes a number of provisions which will further reduce the already limited powers of smaller political groups and individual members. there is a greater demand for qualified majority voting, which will not be beneficial for small political factions. this, in my view, further reduces the democratic nature of this institution. for example, it is proposed to abolish written declarations, to limit the scope and possibilities of submitting written questions to the commission and other institutions, and to limit the possibility of tabling motions for resolutions. this will lead to a reduction in the scope for individual members to carry out parliamentary activities. i could not agree with the vast majority of the proposed amendments, which is why i voted against the report in the final vote.
in writing. i supported the revision of the ep's rules of procedure, which should lead to a rationalisation and greater efficiency of the ep's work at all stages of the decision-making process. it does so without preventing members from expressing their views and positions. i also agree with the restriction of certain statistically recorded activities of members, which have either lost their justification in the context of strengthening the ep's powers as a whole or are abused and cause increased administrative costs.
in writing. i have supported a report whose adoption will have a significant impact on the functioning of the european parliament itself. the report has been prepared through a very complex process involving not only the members of the committee responsible but also everyone else, since it concerns the actual organisation of our day-to-day work and the way the european parliament will function after the next european elections. the report is crucial not only from a technical but above all from a political point of view. i am convinced that, in its final form, the new rules of procedure of the european parliament will also lead to a far greater transparency and efficiency of the european parliament's work, with citizens being able to follow the whole legislative process in the adoption of specific legislative acts.
in writing. greater transparency of the european institutions means greater credibility in the eyes of the public. this also applies to the european parliament, which is why i supported a number of amendments to the rules of procedure to make the european parliament's role in the legislative process even more transparent. the work of meps must be kept under constant public scrutiny. unfortunately, the same cannot be said of the commission and the eu council, whose decisions are taken behind closed doors. for example, i consider it a step in the right direction to make it mandatory to publish the meetings of rapporteurs with lobbyists, something i am already doing voluntarily. even more striking was the reluctance of some colleagues, particularly from the right-wing groups, to support the proposal that the member could not be paid as a lobbyist at the same time. the lobbyist mp is a mockery and a denial of the meaning of the whole report. i also supported the restriction of certain activities of members, which have no influence on decision-making and only lead to a media-friendly increase in activity statistics.
in writing. ‒ the report on the general revision of the parliament’s rules of procedure outlines several changes to be made regarding the rules, which include a revision of rules on, inter alia, thresholds for votes, the election of officers of parliament, the ordinary legislative procedure, questions for written answers, and composition of committees. i voted in favour of the report, which presents the proposed overhauling of the rules of procedure, ensuring greater transparency, efficiency and clarity in parliament’s proceedings.
mr president, it is a fact that human rights, as they are established by the regulations and the law of the european union, should be the subject of a debate which will take place on the floor of the european parliament. we should not become an exporter of basic human rights to all the surrounding countries, surrounding countries outside the european union. we should really be having this discussion on our own turf. i have come to the conclusion that the report as a whole is adequate, it is well written, although it does indeed fall short on some points. it is important to me that the agenda of these fundamental human rights is also integrated into our international policy. to not support regimes that undoubtedly violate the basic human rights that we recognize, whether it is the right to life, the right to respect for family privacy or the right to dignity. unfortunately, that doesn't happen very often. we shouldn't lecture the world, but we should insist on basic human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. it gives us a clear picture on the situation regarding the eu’s fundamental values – rule of law, human rights and democracy. i am personally glad that the resolution pays special attention to such key issues as violence against women, protection of children and rights for people with disabilities. we definitely should not lose these from our radar. finally, i would like to highlight one part which is gaining in importance: it is on digital rights. access to digital services together with privacy has become a challenge in recent years and we should reflect it properly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it takes into consideration recent developments concerning fundamental rights in several eu member states. the current situation calls for a strong message that fundamental rights have to be protected and preserved. i am glad that it stresses the importance of full respect for the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality applying both to member states and to the eu’s institutions based on a gradual approach, including both a preventative and corrective arm. furthermore, i welcomed the special attention paid to children’s rights stressing the importance of the need for their highest protection. i find it crucial that the european union does not forget that it has been built on respect for the rule of law and that it cannot take this cornerstone for granted.
in writing. ‒ i was sorry to have had to abstain from voting on the state of fundamental rights in the eu in 2015, but i did not think that this document addressed the issue of human rights in a comprehensive way. i don't agree with the narrow interpretation of human rights that has been given lately. why is there not so much talk about them in terms of the conditions and salaries of cashiers in supermarkets or maybe mail order companies? why is the term human rights so rarely used in the context of children whose parents cannot afford to pay for their school lunches? moreover, the amendment failed to pass, stating that it condemns the fact that the economic crisis and the austerity measures taken to deal with it have seriously undermined fundamental social, civil and labour rights, including the right to access to basic needs such as education, housing, health care and social security, and have also had a negative impact on the general health of the population in some member states; calls on the eu institutions and the member states to carry out ex-ante assessments of the impact on fundamental human rights of all policies and to ensure that sufficient resources are available to ensure respect for fundamental rights and to ensure the necessary minimum level of civil, economic, cultural and social rights, with particular emphasis on the most vulnerable and socially disadvantaged groups;
in writing. i voted against. i do not agree with the call for member states to legalize civil partnerships or marriages for lgbt people. marriage legislation is a matter for the individual member states and the eu should not be pushing this kind of legislation by the member states.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed a report assessing the state of human rights in the eu in 2015. in fact, the entire content of the book is related to the topic of migration and refugees. the report analyses in detail the deplorable phenomenon of trafficking in human beings, calls for the need to ensure access to quality medical care for migrants, their integration and social inclusion, improve asylum procedures and ensure the protection of women and girls in particular from all forms of violence. of course, family reunification is another of the necessities. however, it lacks any reflection on the causes of mass migration and suggestions for long-term solutions, certainly not calls for member states to support positive campaigns explaining the need to integrate incoming refugees. that's why i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. the fight against discrimination and inequality among europeans should be one of the fundamental pillars of the function of every member of the european parliament. i supported the 2015 state of fundamental rights report because it makes it clear to the european commission that a new agenda needs to be put forward. an agenda that involves all relevant actors and representatives of citizens' rights and that, taking into account the competences of the member states of the union, is capable of ensuring equal opportunities and rights for all. it is hard to imagine that, for example, human trafficking and exploitation still exist in europe, i.e. illegal activities that are unfortunately now even more fuelled by the new communication technologies. i therefore supported the call for the european union and its member states to ratify the council of europe convention on action against trafficking in human beings and to support the work of european agencies in this field. member states are currently experiencing a growing trend of racism and xenophobia. i therefore voted in favour of a provision to ensure that measures to promote equality between citizens are incorporated as far as possible into national policies. i would very much like to see member states and their lower-level bodies promote human rights education and culture. education is a very effective means of preventing racism and intolerance. it needs to be used to its fullest potential.
in writing. i voted against the report on the state of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. i agree that the protection of human rights and freedoms in the eu is the highest in the world, which cannot be considered a permanent state of affairs, and that the protection of human rights and freedoms must be pursued on a daily basis. i consider the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence to be an important step, although i do not think that the eu should propose any new legislation on this basis. i also welcome the fact that the report addresses the issue of migration and the social inclusion and integration of migrants, including the problem of hateful and xenophobic attitudes towards refugees. the report also recognises the link between women's sexual and reproductive health and a range of human rights; however, i cannot agree with the wording of those provisions that we must respect and protect in the same way the right of all women and girls to sexual and reproductive health and include abortion as a vital basic sexual and reproductive health service. for these reasons, i could not support the text of the report.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu in 2015 outlines the issues and progress made in the enforcement of fundamental rights within the eu for 2015. the report covers a wide range of rights-related topics, such as, inter alia, the protection of fundamental rights and dignity, rule of law, women’s rights and violence against women, and lgbt rights. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is a crucial eu priority and necessity to follow up on the state of play of fundamental rights in the eu, and this cannot be successfully achieved without an appropriate assessment of such initiatives.
‒ fundamental rights are the building blocks of the european union. their active enforcement is an essential element in achieving freedom, security and democracy. the past year has been quite successful in this area in my view, and we can see some concrete examples of the eu's efforts to strengthen citizens' fundamental rights. i am referring to new rules on procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings or the completion of data protection reform. it is essential that we continue to come up with new initiatives and work to ensure that every european citizen has equal access to his or her fundamental rights. i could not vote for this report, however, because there are many points which go against my political convictions. at the same time, i believe that the report goes beyond the eu's competence.
mr president, i would also like to follow the lead of my colleague in supporting copyright protection, which is very consistently and in many paragraphs in this report. for me, copyright protection is really the most important policy for intellectual property protection, because it brings investment, innovation in the field, it also means job development, the connection with employment is absolutely obvious. i am very pleased that the 2014 directive has already brought about a more balanced understanding of the relationship between author and user, that it has brought about more transparency, but also competition between collective management organisations. i think that's very important. we would also need cultural policy, the promotion of cultural goods, to be linked to cohesion policy. unfortunately, this is not the case due to some imperfections in the general regulation. i think it is a big task for the next two and a half years to be able to change the current regulation setting for the use of aid in cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it calls for further development of a comprehensive, coherent and long-term industrial policy framework for the cultural and creative sector (ccs) in terms of growth. i believe that the eu is in a strategic position to trigger innovative spillovers in other industrial sectors, such as tourism, retail, and digital technologies and that it can take a leading role in promoting the positive impact that the creative sectors have across europe.
in writing. i voted against. i do not agree with the call for the commission to draw up a framework for cultural policy. culture is supposed to be a matter for the member states and for the individual citizen. i do not agree with the idea of involving the european investment bank in subsidising culture.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative sectors. i agree that these are important sectors, which generate almost 39% of the union's gdp and employment in this sector is constantly increasing, so it is necessary to support this sector, which creates incentives for innovation. however, i believe that the report does not adequately reflect the need for copyright reform to ensure a balanced approach between the industry and consumer and producer groups, incentives for smes, etc. i also disagree that there should be increased funding for this sector, through the efsi and other funds, at a time when the eu has much more pressing problems to solve. that's why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. i supported the report highlighting the importance of the cultural and creative sectors, which is the last sector to lack a framework strategy at eu level. the commission and the member states should establish 'study labs', creative centres, co-operation spaces, networking programmes and cultural and creative clusters and networks to promote interaction between micro, small, medium and large enterprises and between non-profit organisations and commercial companies within the cultural and creative sectors, traditional crafts, cultural heritage organisations, tourism, research centres, universities and investors. at the same time, it is essential that the eu and its member states retain the ability to protect and develop their cultural and audiovisual policies within the framework of their existing legislation, standards and agreements, including the unesco convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the cultural and creative sectors need to be supported in europe, as they are our common heritage. i am therefore pleased to have been able to support the resolution, which focuses on several measures to realise the full potential of this activity through the concrete definition of cultural and creative sectors. it highlights the importance of education, skills and training, its ability to create value from intellectual property, and suggests solutions to facilitate access to eu funding. i am pleased that this resolution also calls on the member states to create a legal and institutional framework for creative artistic activity in line with european standards.
in writing. ‒ cultural and creative industries (ccis) are, at the dawn of the 21st century, undergoing considerable change as a result of increased digital technologies, the economic crisis of the past several years, and considerable changes in the regulatory framework. it is therefore necessary to reflect those changes in eu policy-making and legislation. i agree with the need to focus on creative industries and their position in this dynamic environment. however, i do not agree with the extremely broad scope of the report which is in my opinion rather diluting the overall target. ccis have different specifics than other ‘traditional’ industries, but the same regulatory framework has to apply in both cases. therefore, i decided to support a number of deletions within this report and i voted in favour of the final text.
in writing. ‒ the increasing impact of globalisation and digitalisation is having an increasing impact on the traditional cultural and creative sectors. the traditional sectors are based on the talents, skills and values of the european peoples. i believe that these skills need to be preserved, as well as cultural and linguistic diversity. to achieve this, we need to adapt to the current conditions and start to connect culture and the creative sectors with modern technologies and other sectors of the current economy. i therefore vote in favour of this report because i believe that we need a coherent policy at eu level to deal with this area in the long term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe we need to pay attention to women’s rights in the countries in our neighbourhood, countries with which we cooperate quite closely. i am also worried about the concerns raised in the text and would call on the countries to focus more on women’s issues. i would like to point out one issue here. although i am convinced there is a case for having women participating more in political and economic life, it should not be pushed, as the resolution suggests, through instruments such as obligatory quotas.
in writing. i decided to support the report on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. while i believe that the eastern partnership countries already have so much important work ahead of them, i am convinced that the situation of women's rights in the eastern partnership countries needs to be improved, especially in the context of deep economic changes and economic uncertainty that have had a negative impact on the economic situation of women and have led to gaps in their de facto equality. in doing so, i condemn the use of sexual violence against women and girls as weapons of war, including mass rape, sexual slavery, prostitution, gender-based persecution including trafficking in human beings, as well as sex tourism, and i stress the need to combat forced marriage as defined by the united nations, including child/early marriage, and i call on the eastern neighbourhood to firmly oppose any form of exploitation and abuse of women through surrogacy.
i do not agree with the call for eastern european countries to introduce quotas for women on the electoral rolls, nor do i agree with the call for special support programmes for politicians and activists. i also do not agree that the eu budget should be used to subsidize women's organisations in eastern european countries at the expense of our taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on the evaluation of women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. all the eastern partnership countries have ratified most of the important international conventions in this area, but unfortunately women in the eastern partnership countries continue to suffer from social discrimination. there is neither equal access to employment nor equal pay for equal work between the sexes. the report explicitly refers in particular to the situation in ukraine, where more than 1.5 million people have been forcibly displaced since the beginning of the conflict, of whom two thirds are women and children, who suffer from poor access to healthcare, housing and employment. i agree that it is necessary to combat the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings, violence against women, and in particular to promote access to education and services in the field of reproductive and sexual health. that is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ we must recognise that the eu needs to impose gender equality and gender mainstreaming more actively through the many useful instruments of its neighbourhood policy. even though women’s rights and gender equality are included within the constitutions and legal systems of all six eastern partnership countries of armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine, social and economic discrimination and gender stereotypes remain prevalent, preventing greater inclusion of women in the labour market and participation in political decision-making processes. unfortunately, the discrimination and stereotypes also lead to violence against women and lack of sexual and reproductive health and rights. i am proud that the s&d group worked together amongst others groups who managed to improve the very general draft by tabling amendments on: lgbti persons’ rights; need for stronger involvement of women in economic decision making; access to micro-credits; the need for a change in stereotypes; support for equal sharing of unpaid work between men and women; the fight against forced (child) marriage; and combating violence against women. although the six eastern partnership countries guarantee equality between women and men, de facto inequality persists in the areas the report highlights, stressing the importance of increased pressure towards gender equality and gender mainstreaming.
in writing. the european parliament's resolution on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries addresses the same problems we are dealing with in the european union, but on a completely different level. women in these eastern partnership countries face much greater problems of economic dependency, unemployment, discrimination, lack of education and, possibly, problems in reconciling family and professional life. the main objective is to improve the political and economic situation in these countries. it is women who are often involved in civil society and are effectively helping to bring about the necessary reforms. the report rightly emphasises the need for greater involvement of women in transformation processes. where this involvement has taken place, the results have been very positive, such as in moldova, the undp project 'women in politics' mentioned in the report. despite all the advantages of this resolution, i did not end up supporting it because i do not agree that the ep, through these parliamentary resolutions, calls on member states or third countries to make reproductive and sexual health services more accessible, which means, first of all, a liberal approach to abortion.
in writing. ‒ the report on the rights of women in eastern partnership states (eap) highlights the situation in the area of women’s rights in the eap countries and points to the necessity for improvement. particularly, the report highlights the profound economic changes and economic uncertainty that have had a negative effect on the economic situation of women, leading to the regression of female equality in these countries. i voted in favour of the report, which calls on the eap countries to take immediate action to increase equality between women and men in society, including the adoption of national action plans and cooperation with international organisations and civil society stakeholders. the eu has the obligation to promote and enforce gender equality norms and women’s rights in its partner states, and i believe this report reinforces this objective.
the council. i am very pleased to be here at such an important event, because it is a historic moment to some extent, because it is during our slovak presidency of the council of europe that we sign the first agreement of the three institutions of the union the parliament, the council of the european union and the commission on the common main legislative priorities of the union for the coming year. i do not need meps to do this, but it seems to me that this is such a serious matter that they should be sitting here. at least when you signed that deal. i repeat, i do not need their presence. i consider the joint declaration on legislative priorities for 2017 to be an important tool for increasing the efficiency and transparency of internal processes in the union, especially in such an important area as legislation. in addition, in a time of euroscepticism and criticism, it is both necessary and extremely important that the institutions work together in a constructive and complementary way. i consider the greatest contribution of this joint declaration to be its focus on the citizens of the european union. initiatives identified as key, such as employment, social issues or security, directly affect them. our next task will be to bring tangible results on these topics and to present them clearly. that's what people expect, that's what they need. of course, the key to success is to follow through on the priorities set. i believe that regularly assessing the implementation of our joint declaration will go a long way towards this. because countless goals have already been set and many documents signed, often on paper. by regularly monitoring progress on the individual initiatives identified at the highest level, directly by the presidents of the three institutions, we will ensure that the joint declaration does not become just another such declaratory document. and i hope that as early as march you will be able to present, together with my maltese colleague as president of the council, the first concrete results of our joint work. ladies and gentlemen, the declaration we are signing today is proof that we are interested in a different approach to solving problems within the union. during the slovak presidency of the council of the european union, we have approached the tasks arising from this function responsibly, with respect, and have made every effort to overcome the critical period in which the european union is found. i believe that the bratislava process has also made a significant contribution to the launching and implementation of the new procedures that the european union needs today. i would like to thank the other member states and the other eu institutions for their support and wish us all a lot of determination, perseverance and a sense of belonging in our work together.
president of the european commission. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. this is a big moment. i understand, therefore, that the capacity of this house is not sufficient to welcome all those who have a first and foremost interest in this agreement. i'm glad this agreement came about. the first time that the three presidents of the three institutions have come together to define our common guidelines for the next parliamentary year. this is a good moment for the european parliament.
the president-in-office of the council. as i said in july, europeans now take for granted the benefits of european integration, such as peace, passport-free travel, the ability to pay in a single currency and the choice of the country in which they want to live and work. what is worse, many in europe believe that this absolute self-evidence would exist without the european union. and even that we could be much better off without the european union. let's face it, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is in the worst crisis since its inception. but this is not a crisis of external threat, it is a crisis from within, expressed above all by the mistrust of the people and the loss of authority of the european elites. the debate on the future of the union has taken a fundamental turn this year. ask a european if he knows which country should be the next to join the european union. he'll tell you he doesn't know, but he knows very well which country should leave the european union. nowhere in the world, ladies and gentlemen, is there a group of countries that even remotely resembles the european union. we all took the hard way. on the one hand, we respect a number of national specificities. we have retained our own national identities, but at the same time we have transferred many of our key powers to a common administration. today we have a duty to return to the roots. to ask ourselves whose powers and why the nation states have given up in favour of the whole, and whether we are not making the mistake today of turning away from these roots and paying attention to issues that are secondary, irrelevant and divide europe instead of uniting it in a common interest. with a unique project, ladies and gentlemen, that doesn't exist anywhere in the world, we are gambling today with a criminal mind. to stop this gamble, let's talk about where our roots are. they're in economic cooperation, they're in shared security, they're in peacekeeping. let us not, please, force people to do otherwise than these fundamental issues, because if they do not identify with them and if they do not trust them, they will turn their backs on the union for good. the slovak republic took over the presidency in july this year with the ambition to respond to the situation. the bratislava summit was a clear first step forward, as it launched a long-delayed, all-important discussion on how to make the union better, safer and more efficient. what has happened in the union and what is happening in it today? what do we expect from the union? how do we see her future? what did we fail to do, and why? and it was with these questions that we launched the so-called bratislava process on 16 september, which should culminate next march, on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome. but part of the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are putting the union at risk ourselves and often at risk by the domestic political agendas of the member states. for example, there are referendums that are politically motivated, but it's clear that the results have a pan-european impact, and suddenly they become something that i would call a problem for all of us. if this trend continues, the union will be preoccupied with internal politics in the member states, we will be forced to seek solutions that break the back of our heads, to compromise our own principles, all at the expense of the eu's credibility. if this continues, i am convinced that we will lack the political energy and with it the determination to tackle the fundamental problems facing the union as a whole. i want to call on the european leaders here in the european parliament to stop pursuing their domestic agenda at the expense of the european union. we all know, but we don't want to admit, that the referendum in the uk was purely an internal political agenda that politicians failed to manage. we all know that the referendum in italy was a purely domestic political agenda that was not handled. but the consequences of such decisions, for example in a possible referendum on whether or not italy should remain in the eurozone, would be absolutely disastrous for the european union and ideas. so once again, i call on european leaders to stop pursuing their domestic agenda at the expense of all of us here in europe. the current crises in the union should be seen as a good impetus to take action towards a more transparent union. the current crisis of confidence in our citizens is a good opportunity to create a clearer and more honest communication bridge between the political elites and the european public. it is alarming that according to the latest surveys, up to 57% of young europeans feel that they are marginalised and excluded from economic and social life as a result of the crisis in their country. we - the political leaders - are here to give our people not just hope, but the confidence that we can solve the crisis. that despite the unpredictability of the external environment, we have control over our own direction. we must build on the strengths of our community. the european union as a haven of peace, where peace, democracy, the rule of law, human rights, human dignity, freedom and solidarity are the fundamental and timeless pillars of our coexistence. but also the european union as a modern hub of digital progress and innovation. the european union as a conscious driver in the fight against climate change. the european union as the world's largest donor of development aid. the european union is only strong and capable of action if it is united. this was the conclusion reached at the bratislava summit. the european twenty-seven are determined to overcome and overcome the challenges of the present and the future together. but the process of reflection, as necessary as it is, is not enough on its own. without action, the most beautiful idea is worthless. the bratislava summit was therefore not just a reflection, but concrete steps towards making the european union both more understandable and a safe place for its citizens to live. and when i talk about security, i don't just mean external and internal security, the fight against terrorism, but also economic and social security, job security, income security, climate and environmental security. these are all areas of concern to union citizens. not the pun that we want to change in the european union treaties. not endless debate about whether we want more or less europe. the citizens of the european union want an economically strong european union. a union based on investments that contribute to economic growth and job creation. when i stood before you in july, i said that if we want to have such a union, we must make better use of the financial instruments available. our ambition has come true. today, thanks to the excellent cooperation between the council and the european parliament, we have a budget of the european union for 2017 that is flexible, balanced and, above all, reflects our current priorities. that's very good news. the budget adopted next year will increase resources to support economic growth and employment by 12%. we will also be better equipped to deal with migration and its causes, and to enhance the security and protection of the european union's borders. citizens also call for new investment opportunities in the union. i am therefore very pleased that the extension of the duration and financial capacity of the european fund for strategic investments has moved closer to reality. by encouraging the use of public funds, we will give the necessary impetus to private investment, which can bring new jobs. the european union citizen also wants to have a job so that he can take care of himself and his loved ones without worry. the single market is already creating many new jobs and making our daily lives easier. by completing the digital single market, we can open up a whole host of other opportunities. so i am very pleased that we have managed to make significant progress on this agenda. for example, unjustified geo-blocking may soon be a thing of the past. we'll help both the consumer and the retailer. discrimination on grounds of nationality, residence or place of business has no place in the union. in today's world, the free movement of citizens of the european union must also extend to the digital space. this also applies to the abolition of roaming charges. moreover, to realise the full potential of the single market, we need an affordable, stable and sustainable supply of clean energy. the energy union can help us achieve this. even in the final days of our presidency, we are working together to take the union further in this area. an ambitious and effective climate policy is also an integral part of the energy union. by ratifying the paris agreement, the european union has confirmed its global leadership in the fight against climate change. we also sent an important message abroad that when it comes to global challenges, we are able to take responsibility and work closely together. one of those challenges, of course, is migration. today, we know that the migration crisis is neither a seasonal nor a regional issue, but a global one. and although our views on how to deal with it sometimes differ, the citizen of the european union wants to know that we are able to offer a constructive common approach. i am glad that we have shown in the recent period that we can reach agreement here too if we want to and move this agenda forward. the european border and coast guard, which started its activities on 6 october, thanks to the swift and effective cooperation of the european parliament and the council, is a clear example. the issue of responsibility and solidarity is also closely linked to migration. i know these terms have stirred a variety of emotions in the past few months. but i believe we can all agree that each member state must not hesitate to lend a helping hand if necessary. but at the same time, i believe that we should take into account the real possibilities, capacities and capabilities of the individual member states. and i'm glad that we've shown in the last few months that we can at least talk openly about this difficult topic. this is also the case with the slovak presidency's proposal on so-called effective solidarity. i hope that this concept will be one of the elements of the mosaic in the reform of the common european asylum system. but there are other challenges. in addition to protecting the external borders, we must ensure the functionality of schengen, work closely with third countries, in particular transit countries and countries of origin of migrants, and tackle the causes of migration. and progress on the creation of a european fund for sustainable development should help. it aims in particular to address the root causes of migration by creating jobs, promoting investment and facilitating sustainable development in partner countries. ladies and gentlemen, the citizen of the european union wants to feel stability. in today's uncertain world, the union should be seen by the citizen as a basic anchor. for it to be a truly stable, secure, and prosperous place to live, we need to have good relations with neighbors as well as distant allies. and we need to be substantially more sovereign on some foreign policy issues. i'm going to ask a question that may become a reality, if for example the us administration changes its mind on sanctions against the russian federation, how do we copy this position. it's there that we'll see whether or not we're truly sovereign in these views. we also have a big problem if what the us administration is suggesting happens, and that is a very low presence, engagement in the european space. at the same time, i believe that we will continue successfully with the concrete implementation of the warsaw declaration of eu and nato leaders on strengthening mutual strategic cooperation of the two organisations. an effective enlargement policy also leads to a better resilience of the union. this is crucial to supporting the transformation and consolidating stability in south-eastern europe. to this end, new chapters have been opened in the accession process with montenegro and serbia, and there have also been positive developments in the application of bosnia and herzegovina for membership of the union. it must be in our interest that all candidate countries continue to undergo political and economic reforms that bring them closer to the union and strengthen the rule of law. free, fair and balanced trade based on reciprocity and mutual benefits is also of key importance for the internal and external stability of the union. the adoption of the free trade agreement with canada is a good example of this. this modern and ambitious agreement will not only strengthen the union's economic position, but also open up new business opportunities for our citizens. ladies and gentlemen, the only answer to the current wave of euroscepticism is to bring the meaning, substance and real achievements of the european integration project closer together through concrete results. otherwise we will open the door to different interpretations and speculations that justify anti-european politicians. in this context, we are likely to face another major challenge from next spring to ensure that the process of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union is transparent with the full involvement of the member states, and i would add, although these words have already been criticised on more than one occasion, that the negotiations must lead to the conclusion that it is worthwhile to remain a member state of the european union. if the negotiations prove that it is not worth being a member state of the european union, there is a risk that the negative mood in europe will grow. and we have to avoid that, because we can set an incredibly dangerous example for countries where perhaps euroscepticism is very strong. the slovak presidency has therefore made every effort to send a positive message to the european public through its work and results. so we have done our best to bring tangible results that affect the daily lives of each of us. our aim was not only to prevent further fragmentation of the union, but also to reassure our citizens that the european union is a project with a future. i want to assure you that the responsibility that we felt at the beginning of our presidency, that same responsibility remains unchanged. i wish the incoming maltese presidency good luck and determination to achieve its priorities. i trust that the incoming presidency will take us significantly further in achieving our common objectives, and at the same time i would like to thank the netherlands for the excellent cooperation within the trio.
president of the european commission. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank our slovak friends very warmly for a successful first presidency. i would like to congratulate the prime minister, robert - and i thank you because we are the only ones - and ivan, who have been the working horses of this presidency. the slovak presidency has made a major contribution to the establishment of the european border and coast guard. among the great achievements of this presidency is the fact that we were able to agree on the european directive on terrorism and on systematic external border control. the major achievements of his presidency will include the finalisation of the firearms directive, the level of ambition of which is obviously still below the more ambitious proposals of the commission, but it is very real progress and i know how energetically the presidency has worked on it, just as it has done its best to ensure that we can agree on trade defence instruments. this is a great achievement of the presidency. as for the rest, mr president, i would have liked to debate it, but as those with whom we could debate it are absent, but i would like to thank the members of parliament who are present, i shall have my written speech distributed.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would also like to thank the prime minister for all the efforts that the slovak presidency has made in order not just to make it a success, but to address the issues that are still pending. if i may just point out two issues that i remember from your statement, one is that the domestic political agenda should not prevail over eu-related and common eu interests and affairs. i think that this is very important, but i must say that it still prevails and we see it on a daily or weekly basis. we see it in the council and we see it in the council groups: issues are addressed and suddenly an issue of so-called national interest always prevails, whether it is a question of addressing the opening up of the markets in railways, whether it is digital or whatever it is. in this respect, i think that we need to return to the roots, which in fact show the ability to address the issues and find a common basis. the second issue is that you spoke about the eu being subtle. if i may just add, i think that we would like to see an eu that is a strong player and that we still need to contribute to this in a major way. you also referred to the american presidential elections. there is perhaps a bit of uncertainty. we don’t yet know what the policies will be. we have heard a lot of statements that create concern – i would wait for the policies – and, at the same time, threats are expressed from time to time by russia. these two issues are an invitation to the european union to be that strong player and to be able to address the issues that are not dependent on the americans nor on the russians. we are focusing on the trade agenda. of course we know what happened with tpp – we do not yet know what will happen with ttip – but we do not have to wait. on the one hand, we can negotiate with the other countries but, at the same time, the new administration will be put into place and we should set a positive agenda. we should be the ones co-setting, if not setting, the agenda. i do not think that we can be caught unprepared in this respect. reference was also made to the migration crisis - sometimes too little and too slow, but we are progressing, i agree with you; but i do not think we can hide the fact that what is happening today in turkey is completely unacceptable. this is a question of our values, and i think that we can hardly continue accession negotiations with turkey unless we see a real shift in the direction in which turkey is heading. at the same time, i am in favour of setting the conditions – as we have said in the european parliament – and reopening the negotiations once, let us say, the situation has progressed in that country. apart from what i have said, i think that values are key. i must say that we need to apply the same measure to everyone. i am glad that you have signed the agreement with cuba but, at the same time, i would like to see future agreements that have the conditionality - if they provide concessions - that at the same time, there is real motivation and progress in the countries concerned. prime minister, in conclusion, i agree with a lot that you have said. i think that you have had a new experience and that on these issues that you have expressed, and some that i have added, we need recognition, champions in the council to move beyond marginal – and sometimes very partial – national interest.
for the group gue/ngl mr prime minister, mr president of the european commission, the historic first presidency of the slovak republic unfortunately came at a very difficult time. although it looked like he would be forced to deal with the consequences of david cameron's irresponsible policies and brexit, the slovaks managed much more than was generally expected of them. for example, they have managed to tame the initial strong passions around brexit and have largely calmed the situation and relations with the uk. at the beginning of this semester, i expressed my conviction that this presidency would make the european union realise that the visegrad countries are not europe's enemies. i repeat that we too want to live in peace and prosperity, but we have our own political specificities and we ask that they be respected. we are not uncooperative, we are not irresponsible lone wolves. we're not the ones who walk away when the weather's bad. it is sad that the media have talked about this presidency mainly because of the scandals, but other aspects of a very difficult period have not been addressed. slovak diplomats, compared to other presidencies, managed to deal effectively with complex problems and avoided internal political disputes. thanks to considerable efforts, the slovak side has managed to ensure that farmers now have a chance to enjoy a transparent and unfair trading environment. i consider this a major achievement, important for the future of the whole sector and for the sustainable development of the european union. the slovak presidency has brought some important issues to the table and has shown that even a small country can do a lot of important work. of course, i am far from agreeing with all the actions of this presidency, particularly in relation to the ceta and ttip trade agreements. i really don't think it's a chance or a hope. it's a bad concept of international trade that will affect our citizens. but i also believe that we have managed to dispel the initial panic that has been circulating in the circles around your presidency, mr prime minister. i would like to reiterate at this point that the countries of central and eastern europe refuse to be treated as second-class countries, and i sincerely hope that the slovak presidency has proved to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not. finally, i would like to thank prime minister fico, who managed very quickly after the elections to form a functional coalition for this presidency, despite his health problems. mr prime minister, thank you for showing that we like us, smaller countries can be proud and do a good job, and thank you also to your people who have been good allies in the european parliament in the various negotiations.
in writing. the slovak presidency (and others) has done a good job on the imco agenda and i would like to thank my slovak colleagues for that. although several unprecedented events have come to the forefront of eu policy-making over the past six months, headed by the decision of the uk citizens to leave the union, the presidency has also been on the agenda of a so-called proper, perhaps less visible but no less important, agenda. one of the declared priorities of the presidency was to contribute to the fight against unfair trading practices in the food sector. following the ep resolution on this subject, the presidency organised an international expert conference in bratislava on how to strengthen the position of farmers in the food chain, where many delegates expressed their conviction that european legislation was needed. not only the ep but also a number of member states have called on the commission to come forward with a proposal to reconcile the relationship between food producers, suppliers and retailers. as rapporteur for the revision of the regulation on cooperation between consumer protection authorities, i also welcome the fact that the presidency has worked intensively to discuss this extensive regulation and that the slovak colleagues in the council have managed to get support for the proposal among the member states. its adoption can significantly increase consumer protection in the internal market, which was one of the specific objectives of the slovak republic during its historically first presidency.
mr president, human rights are one of the two focal points of the new united nations secretary-general, antónio guterres. in this context, the european union's policy in this area is of great importance to the united nations. despite the breadth of the report under consideration, it lacks some key issues. there is no reference in the migrant clause to the european union's attempt to put pressure on oil-rich states kuwait and saudi arabia. it would be logical, after all, that refugees from syria and iraq, the vast majority of whom are sunnis, should be accepted by those very neighboring countries, whose resources are substantially higher than those of lebanon or jordan. i am missing any technical reference to the united states of america in the entire report. many states in the united states of america have the death penalty, and among developed nations, our strategic partner, the exporter of democracy, has the highest percentage of its population in prison. i believe that the work of the european parliament also contributes to the protection of the rights of the majority of the population. after all, they are also indigenous. my colleague from poland has left, unfortunately, and there are also political prisoners, and they are not discussed here.
mr president, our annual report contains a number of good recommendations, but i am afraid we are not seeing the forest for the trees. on page 32 of our report, we talk about the rights of children. but we are not bringing a ceasefire or answers to the children who will die in aleppo today. not even the ones who die there tomorrow. why do they die, and whose fault is it? we're talking about human rights and human rights violations. so let's finally act and stop the worst atrocities. let's start with the things that should never have happened in the 21st century. if we put the culprits in the equation, we find that we have to resuscitate the functioning of the un security council. as long as the state responsible for violating international humanitarian law holds the veto, we will continue to helplessly watch new atrocities. russia and assad must finally take responsibility for their actions. eighty thousand people in a two-by-four-mile area are paralyzed in a vicious circle of death. the number of human rights violations in the world is the highest in decades. a firm backbone of international law, a consistent pursuit of responsibility for its violations is a sine qua non condition for our future existence.
ladies and gentlemen, you are about to vote, and i quote: "the european union is the greatest achievement in history". i think the european union is a big mistake and just another arrogant attempt to centralize the management of our entire continent. you are about to vote, and i quote: "the european union is the largest economic power". i think the bureaucracy has stopped economic growth all over europe and brought some countries to the brink of bankruptcy. you are about to vote, and i quote: 'the european union brings peace, prosperity and stability.' in my opinion, european diplomacy has fueled the civil war in ukraine, and the european union's migration policy has brought nothing but instability, terror and one million illegal migrants to europe. you are about to vote to create a european union army, a european union military command, a defence council and a military planning unit. when i see and observe the chaos that was caused five years ago by the actions of some european union states in libya, when i see how the diplomacy of the european union caused the upheaval in ukraine, when i see how you voted against the countries of central europe on the issue of migration quotas, the idea of a european army simply makes my back chill. i shall therefore vote against and i urge you to vote against this report, mr broka.
madam president, we are debating today mr brok’s report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. it is in my view a good, compact and comprehensive report. it mentions a number of proposals and visions which, in the majority, i truly share. for example, the commitment to a strong eu security and defence policy, or a call to deliver an eu white book on defence in 2017. to face the unbearable situation in syria, the top priority is the reform of the security council. we have to concentrate all of the eu’s and member states’ diplomatic forces to reform the security council. we need to remove the veto concerning mass atrocities. the international security and humanitarian mechanisms seem to be paralysed. we are obliged to make them work again and do we need to do it now.
madam president, yesterday many of us had tears in our eyes and some of us were crying when we saw the two yazidi girls who had the braveness and decisiveness that we lack. is this so different from what is happening today in aleppo? i would like to avoid a situation where, in a year or two, we award the sakharov prize to someone who managed to escape from aleppo. if you look at the draft of the european council conclusions, we are saying that we are keeping all options open. that was two days ago. i understand that the situation has evolved further, but it has not evolved dramatically in comparison to where we were a few days, a week or two weeks ago. so i think that it is high time to act – and i mean really act, take decisions. this is what is expected. the second issue that i would like to raise is turkey. i agree with president juncker that there has been enormous progress in tackling the migration issue with turkey. there are positive signs. but i need to keep that apart from another issue, an issue on which this parliament has been practically united: we have called for the freezing of the negotiations with turkey. there is something like the copenhagen criteria for membership for conducting negotiations. people are being put in prison, are being persecuted, and are perhaps even being killed, and yet we continue accession negotiations with turkey. you must be joking.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. my question is this: you have spoken about the strategy of the european union. it's a very interesting question. can you tell us why the european union does not have this strategy and what the european union can do about it? the second question is whether the german government has this strategy.
madam president, the tragic events in aleppo were described by many of my colleagues, but i want to say that they illustrate the very serious problem that we are facing. this is the problem of the inability to act even in such a dreadful situation. president juncker has mentioned that we are working, and some of our work is delivering results, and i see some improvement in the area of economy and others. initiatives such as efsi or the european solidarity corps are very good ideas that will make life in our part of the world better, and we should we should keep going in this direction, but at the same time i firmly believe that the priority for the year to come is in other areas. this is the area of security and defence in a broader and more strategic sense. these are areas in which we need to act together as europeans and also as responsible members of nato. it’s not enough to have a good security system, good weapons and dedicated soldiers: we must know what we really want and have the courage to take the necessary actions. that is why i am calling for the representatives of the member states in the council to have more courage to formulate our foreign policy and to take responsibility to act. otherwise, the dreadful events in aleppo – the tragic stories we were hearing about yesterday – will simply not come to an end.
mr president, i personally regard the slovak presidency positively. i welcome the concept of effective solidarity in addressing the migration crisis. i also support the dual regime for posted workers proposed in the negotiations on the revision of the posted workers directive. but i think we should be more self-critical when it comes to the overall performance of the european union. neither the european commission, nor the european parliament, nor its presidents have done enough to convince the british voters to remain in the european union. i see this as a failure on our part, which must lead to greater humility and to a reflection on the real priorities, and these should be addressed by the european council. but i do not see in its programme a clear response to ending the bombing of aleppo and the suffering of the civilian population. what is the russian bomber's interest in bombing aleppo? how do we end the suffering of civilians? the european council should respond to that.
in writing. i got held up. it's a technical change in the rules, which i don't see as a change for the better or for the worse. the amendment is being made at the request of poland in order to avoid any conflict with the polish rules on insolvency proceedings.
in writing. ‒ in 2015, poland passed a new insolvency law to make existing legal instruments more effective and to help business entities survive financial stress or distress. as a result, the current annexes to the eu insolvency regulation require an update to harmonise with the new reform of polish domestic law. i voted in favour of the regulation under the ordinary legislative procedure, which will facilitate legislation that will be business-friendly and encourage growth for business entities conducting business in poland.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution as i believe that we should intensify our trade relations with uzbekistan. we know from ilo reports and other observations that there are still some concerns regarding labour conditions. having said that, the uzbek government has made good progress in addressing these concerns, especially on forced and child labour. in this context, i am in favour of enhancing our cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the partnership between the european communities and the republic of uzbekistan because i believe that the support that the eu has given to uzbekistan in recent years is yielding tangible results. the report emphasises the need to continue deepening cooperation with a focus on the rule of law and the judiciary, to work towards reforms, to streamline the work of the uzbek parliament and to monitor the ongoing process of improving working conditions in uzbekistan's cotton fields.
in writing. i voted yes. i am in favour of removing customs duties and barriers to trade in textiles between the eu and uzbekistan. i consider free trade to be mutually beneficial.
in writing. i supported the ep's agreement to extend the scope of the ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement negotiated since 2011, as i believe the reasons for the eu's suspension of the agreement have passed.
in writing. ‒ in an effort to strengthen its ties with uzbekistan, the eu is seeking to add bilateral trade in textiles to the existing eu-uzbekistan pca (1999). the trade agreement, more specifically, seeks to forge a closer collaboration between the central asian country, the eu and the international labour organisation to tackle forced and child labour in uzbekistan, a problem that is prevalent in the country’s cotton industry. i voted in favour of including textiles in our partnership agreement, as the agreement will encourage the uzbek government to continue to implement reforms that will allow the country to respect their international commitments regarding human and labour rights, and eventually eradicate forced and child labour.
in writing. i've been delayed. the vote was on a resolution accompanying an agreement to remove trade barriers to textile imports and exports between the eu and uzbekistan. i voted in another vote for free trade. i have been hesitant on this accompanying resolution because the authors of the resolution did not spare themselves the needless call for changes in uzbekistan's labour legislation concerning child labour and the remuneration of agricultural workers. the ep is supposed to leave this legislation to uzbekistan, and free trade, not an ep resolution, is the best way to help raise wages.
in writing. ‒ in line with the approved report, i welcome the significant progress made in uzbekistan since 2013, including the adoption of legislation prohibiting child labour and the achievement of the near-total elimination of child labour. significant progress has also been made in the elimination of forced labour, where uzbekistan is actively cooperating with the ilo. at the same time, i believe that the eu should use the extension of the pca to put pressure on the uzbek authorities to ensure that a process of political transformation is launched following the sudden death of the president, leading to the strengthening of the rule of law, democratic reforms and substantial improvements in the human rights situation.
in writing. ‒ in an effort to strengthen its ties with uzbekistan, the eu is seeking to add bilateral trade in textiles to the existing eu-uzbekistan pca (1999). the trade agreement, more specifically, seeks to forge a closer collaboration between the central asian country, the eu and the international labour organisation to tackle forced and child labour in uzbekistan, a problem that is prevalent in the country’s cotton industry. i voted in favour of including textiles in our partnership agreement, as the agreement will encourage the uzbek government to continue to implement reforms that will allow the country to respect their international commitments regarding human and labour rights, and eventually eradicate forced and child labour.
madam chairman, as vice chairman of the committee on international trade, i am very pleased to support ecuador's accession to our existing alliance with colombia and peru. the world is not in a good place for free trade right now. we see all kinds of obstacles that arise in the transatlantic agreement, we see that the united states of america is likely to withdraw from some of the agreements that have already been concluded in the future, and that is why it is important that the european union is the promoter of free trade, because that is the only way our economies can benefit. we have some free trade agreements in asia, of course latin america is also important. so it's very good that we managed to vote against ecuador joining this free trade agreement. i only welcome it and of course i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation concerning the accession of ecuador to the agreement between the european union and colombia and peru, as i am in favour of deepening eu relations with the countries concerned. ecuador is in a complicated regional and international situation and i believe that closer cooperation will stimulate its sustainable economic and social development.
in writing. i voted yes. this agreement constitutes an acceptance of the accession of ecuador to the eu-south america trade facilitation agreement. i support the eu and ecuador to be able to trade goods and services without tariffs.
in writing. i supported the agreement on ecuador's accession to the trade agreement that the european union concluded in 2012 with two other andean states, colombia and peru. i consider this agreement to be an important step in deepening the eu-ecuador relationship, which will facilitate the conditions for trade on both sides. this agreement will eliminate tariffs on all industrial and fishery products, increase market access for agricultural products, improve access to public procurement and services. i firmly believe that europe will benefit from this agreement, which will open up the space for investment. in november 2015, the european parliament welcomed the conclusion of negotiations with ecuador, supported the swift and full entry into force of this agreement, but at the same time called on ecuador to step up its efforts to ensure access to education, combat child labour and comprehensive respect for women's rights. whereas ecuador has this year presented an action plan 'review of policies, achievements and actions of ecuador to ensure good living conditions'. i am pleased that ecuador has made visible progress in fulfilling its commitments on labour law and human rights.
in writing. i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the protocol of accession to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of ecuador. the conclusion of this trade agreement would lead to the gradual opening of the eu-ecuador market for goods, services, public procurement and investment and the abolition of all customs duties. the agreement, which will improve ecuador's access to the eu market, is seen as a tool to contribute to raising living standards in ecuador, especially in view of the situation in ecuador following the earthquake in april 2016, the fall in exports due to the decline in oil prices and the value of the us dollar. i see as a positive contribution of the trade agreement the commitments of ecuador to the protection of workers and the environment, which are linked to ecuador's accession to the trade agreement. i also welcome the opening of dialogue for future economic and political integration, especially in view of the possible improvement of freedom of speech and press in ecuador, which was severely restricted in 2013 following the adoption of the controversial media law.
in writing. ‒ negotiations for an eu trade agreement with the andean countries started in 2009, and colombia and peru are the latest additions to the agreement. the trade agreement allow all parties involved to develop closer bilateral relations and will serve as an impetus for further eu economic and political integration in the andean region. the agreement is also a way of enhancing the eu’s political dialogue with ecuador and colombia, based on the respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights. i voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe both the eu and the andean community will benefit from closer collaborative ties.
in writing. i got held up. this agreement concerns access for norwegian, danish and swedish fishing vessels to the skagerrak and kattegat. i consider it a matter between denmark and sweden, which is why i've been delayed.
in writing. i fully support the eu-norway agreement on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak. this agreement shall maintain exclusive access for vessels from denmark, norway and sweden to their waters more than 4 nautical miles from baselines. this agreement respects the legal and administrative provisions for the conservation and sustainable use of the living resources in skagerrak. as the agreement is in line with the un convention on the law of the sea, the objectives and rules of the common fisheries policy and the 1980 bilateral fisheries agreement between the european union and norway, i see no reason to drag out the negotiations and postpone a decision.
in writing. ‒ the eu-norway agreement on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak, a strait running between the southeast coast of norway and the southwest coast of sweden, allows for reciprocal access between the eu, sweden and norway to fish up to four nautical miles from their respective baselines in the skagerrak. i voted in favour of the report because it supports the historical fishing rights shared in the area, one that predates the creation of states and the recognition of territorial waters and, as well as exclusive economic zones.
in writing. i got held up. the resolution is about the agreement on access for norwegian, danish and swedish fishing vessels to the skagerrak. the resolution calls on the commission to report on the application of the agreement before its renewal. i consider this agreement to be a matter between denmark and sweden, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu-norway agreement on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak. that resolution calls on the commission to forward to parliament the minutes and conclusions of all consultations and a full evaluation report on the application of the agreement. it called on the commission and the council, inter alia, to inform parliament immediately and fully, in accordance with eu law, at all stages of the procedures relating to the agreement and its renewal.
in writing. ‒ the eu-norway agreement on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak, a strait running between the southeast coast of norway and the southwest coast of sweden, allows for reciprocal access between the eu, sweden and norway, to fish up to four nautical miles from their respective baselines in the skagerrak. i voted in favour of the report because it supports the historical fishing rights shared in the area, one that predates the creation of states and the recognition of territorial waters, as well as exclusive economic zones.
in writing. i got held up. the agreement allows for the exchange of information, including personal data, between europol and the georgian police. such information could include expertise, general situational reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report which proposes to strengthen cooperation between georgia and the european police office (europol). cooperation agreements may concern the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. i believe that there is clearly a need to strengthen operational cooperation between europol and georgia. according to europol, georgia's importance in the fight against terrorism and organised crime is growing, especially since it is a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against georgian organised crime groups. in this respect, the conclusion of this agreement on strategic and operational cooperation with georgia would help in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which are by their very nature international phenomena. that's why i endorsed the report.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that there is a clear need to strengthen operational cooperation between europol and georgia. according to europol, georgia's importance in the fight against terrorism and organised crime is growing, especially since it is a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against georgian organised crime groups. i therefore support the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia, which will help in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. this proposal concerns an operational and strategic agreement between europol and georgia allowing for the exchange of information, including personal data. such information could include expertise, general situational reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods and support for specific cases of criminal investigation. i believe that this mutually beneficial agreement will make the work of both europol and the georgian security forces more effective.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between europol and georgia seeks to support and strengthen cooperation between member states and georgia in order to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious criminal activity affecting member states. specifically, the agreement includes the exchange of operational, strategic and technical information, including personal data and classified information. i voted in favour of the agreement because georgia is a key strategic partner for the eu and should therefore be regarded equally as a key strategic partner for europol.
in writing. ‒ i have said on several occasions that i consider europol to be one of the most important agencies for ensuring security in the eu. in today's connected europe, it is impossible for data on dangerous or potentially dangerous persons not to work. i therefore fully support this agreement, as cooperation with georgia will provide europol with a more comprehensive and complete picture of crime in europe, allowing it to more quickly identify and assess immediate threats as well as longer-term trends in all areas of crime. better cooperation between the police authorities of georgia and europol should also lead to the creation of better intelligence documents, which will help to better protect the security of european citizens and to fight terrorism more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund at the request of spain, because if the union's financial assistance to redundant workers is to be effective, it should be dynamic and mobilised as quickly as possible. i welcome the fact that the report emphasises the need to improve the employability of all workers through appropriate training, to be offered as part of a coordinated package and adapted not only to the needs of the workers made redundant but also to the existing business environment.
in writing. i voted against it. i don't agree with the whole nonsensical globalization adaptation fund and the idea of subsidizing failing companies. in this case, i am against the payment of eur 856 800 to support the 250 workers made redundant by a car parts company in valencia. social policy should be a matter for the individual states.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. in november 2016, spain addressed a request to the european commission for financial assistance for workers made redundant following the bankruptcy of bostal, a company that manufactured motor vehicles and trailers. unfortunately, the measure concerns 250 workers who have been made redundant. according to the rules of the legislative process, the european parliament must also give its consent to the granting of funds. the funds released will be used mainly for the purpose of upskilling or retraining the workers made redundant. i voted to approve financial aid from the globalisation adjustment fund for spain.
in 2015, there was a significant increase in the production of motor vehicles in the south-east asian region, to the detriment of the european union member states. in the case of spain, and in particular the valenciana region, the negative economic developments and the impact of globalisation led to the dismissal of 500 employees in just nine months. in addition, 62 out of a total of 187 enterprises specialising in the automotive sector in the region were closed down. that is why i voted in favour of the report on the release of the european globalisation adjustment fund. more specifically, it will be more than eur 23 million to be used to reduce unemployment. because right now it's about 20 percent. particular attention needs to be paid to the pre-retirement generation, as it is this group that has been the most affected by redundancies. i am very pleased that the local authorities have decided to encourage vocational training appropriate to the local labour market. there is a need to contribute to improving the professional potential of all those affected by redundancies, whether through retraining in the food sector, the industrial sector or through upskilling in information technology and language skills. i am voting to show that economic deprivation can no longer be tolerated. we must do everything we can to ensure that european citizens are able to live in the most dignified conditions possible.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. as a social democrat, i am glad that such a fund exists, as i believe it is one of the eu's fundamental instruments for promoting social justice. i supported the european parliament's proposal to mobilise the egf for spain to support the reintegration of bosal s.a.'s workers into the labour market. this company has suffered massive redundancies in the wake of bankruptcy and subsequent closure. this is a good way to help these workers in a situation that is financially challenging for them. it is above all an act of solidarity, which i regard as a fundamental pillar of the european community.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument that provides additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or of the global financial and economic crisis, in the aim of assisting their reintegration into the labour market. spain submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egaf following the demise of the motor vehicle, trailer and semi-trailer manufacturing industry in the region of valenciana. today, much of the manufacturing has been resumed in china and south-east asia. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the egaf for spain, which is intended to shield the spanish economy from the negative effects of globalisation.
in writing. i got held up. the regulation allows railway undertakings to pay sickness and similar expenses that governments pay for other companies.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed a report which, in terms of content, is part of the so-called railway package and responds to the changes that have taken place in the railway sector since 1969, when the original regulation on common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings was adopted. the amended legislation allows member states to reimburse railway undertakings for payments linked to obligations which other modes of transport are not required to fulfil. these include special payments in the event of accidents at work, pensions for railway employees who perform heavy work and retire early, or payments for the cost of level crossing facilities. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the compromise text negotiated between the european parliament and the council of the political pillar of the so-called fourth railway package is a compromise on a very sensitive subject. over the years, we have heard many arguments for and against further opening up of markets. supporters of liberalisation talk of the pressure to be more efficient in a competitive environment, while opponents argue that in the long term, liberalisation has failed to deliver better and safer services for passengers and more dignified working conditions. it's the opposite. the rules for opening up markets must therefore be clear, also with regard to quality standards and social standards for employees. cheaper is not necessarily better, and if opening up markets means precariousness and worsening conditions for employees, it would be a loss for the railway sector as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the motion for rejection because i wished to support the agreement reached on the repeal of regulation 1192/69 on the normalisation of accounts of railway undertakings. the regulation compensates railway undertakings for the payments of obligations which other modes of transport do not have to support. with the opening of the market, such measures are inconsistent with more recent eu legislation as railway undertakings continue to compete with other modes of transport but also between themselves. i therefore consider that such compensation should be managed according to the same principles applying to commercial companies. directive 2012/34/eu establishes a different framework for such compensation and should have been transposed into national law already from 2015. i hope to see the repeal of regulation 1192/69 as early as possible without a further transitional period, but in the spirit of finding a compromise, i agree to support another year of transition period.
madam president, i supported this motion precisely because agreement on the railway package has been sought for a very long time. i believe that the proposed measures, such as the mandatory tendering of public service contracts, have the potential to improve the quality of rail passenger services. i think that is very important and i also feel that the competitive pressure that these measures are putting on us is increasing. this is the right way to go, because i believe that it is the passengers who will appreciate the higher offer and the competitiveness. the new system will make it more efficient for not only passengers but also taxpayers. i firmly hope that this will lead to an increase in the attractiveness of rail transport compared to other modes of transport, which are less environmentally friendly, for example, and harm our future. that's why i'd like to support rail transport.
in writing. after approving the technical part of the railway package earlier this year, i also supported the market part of the package, which is undoubtedly a step forward, a step towards creating genuine competition in the rail passenger market, from which passengers in particular will benefit. in this context, one can take a small sigh of relief over the relatively long transitional period, i.e. the postponement of the entry into force, when only from 2023 the competent authorities (ministry of transport of the czech republic and the regions) will be obliged to award public service contracts in the field of rail transport through competitive tendering open to all railway undertakings in the eu, including private carriers. given that 98% of the long-distance market in the uk is currently covered by contracts concluded directly, i.e. without a tendering procedure, significant changes will be required to create a level playing field. ultimately, it will be up to the member states and the commission to decide how to deal with the legal possibility of granting exemptions from the obligation to open competitions for the provision of rail passenger services even after the end of the transitional period.
in writing. ‒ the compromise text negotiated between the european parliament and the council of the political pillar of the so-called fourth railway package is a compromise on a very sensitive subject. over the years, we have heard many arguments for and against further opening up of markets. supporters of liberalisation talk of the pressure to be more efficient in a competitive environment, while opponents argue that in the long term, liberalisation has failed to deliver better and safer services for passengers and more dignified working conditions. it's the opposite. the rules for opening up markets must therefore be clear, also with regard to quality standards and social standards for employees. cheaper is not necessarily better, and if opening up markets means precariousness and worsening conditions for employees, it would be a loss for the railway sector as a whole.
in writing. i supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 as regards the opening of the market for national rail passenger services. the proposal aims in particular to establish common rules for the award of public service contracts in the field of rail passenger transport. this is an important step to complete the liberalisation of rail passenger transport. the proposal will also help to improve the environment, the quality of services and lower prices for customers. in particular, when opening up the market, member states will take account of the adequate social protection of workers.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the motion for rejection as well as the amendments that were tabled in order to support the agreement the european parliament reached with the council and the commission. the text will gradually make public tendering compulsory for the attribution of railway routes under public service obligations – such public tendering will increase the transparency of the procedure and should incentivise railway undertakings to provide ever better services to the passengers. public tendering will also favour the emergence of new railway undertakings. throughout the negotiations i aimed at setting up strict safeguards to allow public authorities to directly award the route to a specific operator, to set clear rules as concerns the accessibility of rolling stock and a shorter transitional period. in the end, i am satisfied with the deal that we managed to sign.
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal, which relates to the fourth railway package. in order to achieve better and more efficient rail services at european level, it is necessary to create a single railway area based on open and non-discriminatory access to railway infrastructure. this is the subject of the proposal which deals with both the obligations of public passenger transport services and the financial and social aspects of rail transport. i also consider it important that the proposal clearly and transparently describes how the public service tender procedure is to be conducted.
e). madam president, i supported this report because i believe that the liberalisation of rail passenger services, if it is really aimed at protecting competition, is entirely justified. it increases competitiveness, brings additional benefits for passengers and also for taxpayers. for this reason, i believe that the increase in competitiveness in passenger rail transport is entirely justified and i am not at all opposed to this liberalisation. i would also like to point out that a similar improvement in the quality of service has occurred in freight transport. if there has been an increase in competitiveness, there is no reason to believe that this increase in competitiveness of rail passenger transport will be avoided. i would like to stress again that this type of public transport is undoubtedly very environmentally friendly and should be really encouraged.
in writing. ‒ the compromise text negotiated between the european parliament and the council of the political pillar of the so-called fourth railway package is a compromise on a very sensitive subject. over the years, we have heard many arguments for and against further opening up of markets. supporters of liberalisation talk of the pressure to be more efficient in a competitive environment, while opponents argue that in the long term, liberalisation has failed to deliver better and safer services for passengers and more dignified working conditions. it's the opposite. the rules for opening up markets must therefore be clear, also with regard to quality standards and social standards for employees. cheaper is not necessarily better, and if opening up markets means precariousness and worsening conditions for employees, it would be a loss for the railway sector as a whole.
in writing. i voted in favour of the so-called fourth railway package, which will open up the markets for national rail passenger transport in the member states. i consider that opening up the railway market to competition is the right step to improve the quality of services provided to consumers, to reduce the cost of rail services and to improve the efficiency of public funding in this sector. the legislation also brings about the much needed separation of railway infrastructure managers from railway undertakings, which has already taken place in the czech republic several years ago. i also welcome provisions aimed at ensuring an adequate level of protection for workers in the sector, but which do not go beyond the limits of proportionality. on the contrary, i am concerned about the authorisation of existing holding companies between railway undertakings and infrastructure managers. although the infrastructure manager must act independently when awarding contracts through a tendering procedure, in the case of a holding company it will be difficult to avoid a conflict of interest or an information advantage for the entities that would form a holding company with the infrastructure manager. i see the risk in allowing railway holding companies to exist that the idea of opening up railway markets to free competition is denied.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2012/34/eu as regards the opening of the market for national rail passenger services and the management and operation of railway infrastructure. this proposal should open the national market for rail services to international competition. czech companies will be able to penetrate foreign markets with their services. this proposal also addresses the institutional separation of rail infrastructure management from the operation of transport services. the european parliament attaches great importance to the accounting and technical separation of infrastructure and transport revenues in the case of the 'holding' model, thus ensuring a level playing field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for rejection as i can’t support the agreement reached between the three institutions. the initial proposal aimed at addressing the obstacles to the creation of the single european railway area, namely the closure of the national markets for domestic transport and the governance of the infrastructure manager. i am in favour of a broad opening of the market for passenger transport with certain limits to guarantee the economic equilibrium. in the same spirit, i support a full unbundling of the infrastructure manager and the railway undertaking as i consider that only such a separation can guarantee an equal access to the infrastructure, which is a basic requirement for fair competition. unfortunately, i consider that the provisions as such won’t be enough to ensure a minimum separation between the infrastructure manager and the railway undertaking and i therefore do not wish to support the text.
in writing. ‒ i support this rail liberalisation package with my vote. i believe that its adoption will allow for better competition in the pan-european market and improve the quality of rail services. for czech companies, this will mean both the possibility to penetrate foreign railways, but also to introduce uniform and transparent rules. from the passenger's point of view, the increased competitive environment should lead to a reduction in the cost and quality of the services. i am also convinced that the package will help to improve the working conditions of railway workers and, consequently, to increase their wages.
in writing. i voted against it. i disagree with the eu's regulation of port operations. this regulation will impose restrictions and additional costs on the czech republic in respect of the operation of its sovereign port of hamburg.
in writing. in the report on ports, we have today discussed in particular the need to modernise port services and activities and to create a framework that attracts investment. the financial transparency of ports and port services is also emphasised. in the report we oppose casual work and instead call for better training and safety conditions. we also stress the social provisions governing the port work regime and the need to guarantee the rights of workers in the event of a transfer of undertakings or plants. i voted to accept this report.
in writing. ‒ this agreement clarifies the scope and objective of the regulation, creating a framework that should increase the efficiency and competitiveness of the maritime transport network. it also takes into account the specific situation of ports located in the outermost regions. in this context, it aims to preserve the different organisational models in the union, while allowing authorities or port managing authorities to set minimum requirements for the provision of port services or limit the number of service providers. as a social democrat, i believe that it is necessary for the eu to have similar regulations to guarantee that the european single market is fair to all its participants, which is why i was happy to support this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the regulation seeks to create a framework for the ten-t ports to improve their performance and better cope with changes and transport and logistics requirements. the text is made up of two chapters, one setting up the rules for access to port services, and one to supervise the financial transparency. i particularly welcome the provisions relating to financial transparency, which, i believe, should aim to promote fair competition between european ports, although a certain flexibility is left to the national authorities concerning the rules on the market access of services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of mr parts as a member of the court of auditors because i respect his professional skills in the economic field. i value his experience as a state auditor with responsibility for external audit tasks in estonia, as a deputy chancellor in the ministry of justice and, last but not least, as a member of the estonian privatization agency.
in writing. i am pleased that the plenary session supported the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, which voted in favour of the nomination of the estonian candidate for the european court of auditors. the european court of auditors is composed of a college of 28 members, each nominated for one eu member state. all of them have to go through a hearing before the budgetary control committee and do not always receive a positive recommendation. i am pleased to confirm that mr parts has sufficiently convinced me of his professional qualities during the cont hearing and that i therefore also supported his nomination by voting in plenary. juhan parts will be the new estonian representative after his predecessor kersti kaljulaid was elected as the new estonian president in october.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors serves to improve eu financial management, promote accountability and transparency, and act as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union, checking that eu funds are correctly accounted for in accordance with the relevant rules and regulations. i voted in favour of the report, which favours the nomination of juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors, because i believe mr parts is competent and possesses all the qualities necessary to accomplish his duties as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted for mr parts to be a new member of the european court of auditors because i consider him to be a person with substantial professional experience and a person of high integrity that will greatly contribute to his role as a supervisor of the transparency and regularity in the eu spending. in his career, mr parts has been estonian prime minister, auditor general and minister of economy and communications, giving him a satisfactory knowledge in public finance and budgetary planning and implementation, and qualifying him for his new role as a member of eca. mr parts has committed to work closely with the european parliament and i am looking forward to seeing his added value in his new role.
in writing. coal and steel were the two commodities that gave birth to the industrial revolution in the 18th century. after dramatic changes in these two industries over the last 30 years, there has been a radical reduction in coal mining and a fundamental change in steel production. the world market has been created for both commodities, and the failure rather than the success of the privatisation of the entire sector raises new questions. in any event, the use of new coal processing technologies and the introduction of new trends in steel plants is an important part of the industrial future of the developed countries of the world. the eu cannot afford to be without research and development in this area. there is always a social aspect to all activities in coal mining and processing and steel production. the impact on employment in some regions is crucial. the environmental impact is significant and emissions from steel processing and coal use are an important item in the context of eu environmental policies. in addition to the well-known chemical production, the use of co2 in agriculture and in various chemical and biochemical processes can be of great interest. it is important that the european union should also be at least in touch with the front of the troubleshooting peloton in this area of industrial activity.
in writing. i voted against it. i believe the so-called research fund for coal and steel is an office without foundation. the czech republic has already had to pay over a billion crowns into it. in my judgment, it would be best to abolish this eu office.
in writing. today we discussed a report that addresses the research program of the research fund for coal and steel. the eu has been supporting coal and steel research for more than 50 years. the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community (ecsc) was signed in 1951. in 2002, when the treaty expired, it was decided that the assets of the esuo (and the related interest) would be released to the research fund for coal and steel (rfsc). the programme is financed by the revenues generated by the remaining assets of the (defunct) esuo. it shall be administered by the commission. the research fund for coal and steel shall complement horizon 2020 and shall be managed independently of it. it provides annual funding of around eur 50 million for research and development and innovation in the coal and steel sectors. the rapporteur took the view that the alignment of the rules of the research fund for coal and steel with those of horizon 2020 does not require a change in the legal basis, which i fully agree with, and i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the research fund for coal and steel (rfcs) was established after the expiry of the european coal and steel community treaty (ecsc) in 2012 and provides annually around 50 million euros, from the eu general budget, managed by the commission for r&d and innovation funding to the coal and steel sectors (27.2% for coal and 72.8% for steel) in order to develop knowledge and foster innovation. the proposed revision of the rfcs legal basis is focused on the management rules for the programme and is in line with the procedures and concepts used for horizon 2020, the eu programme for research and innovation, which will act as an outline for the rules for participation and dissemination in the rfcs programme. as a shadow rapporteur for this file i decided to focus mainly on issues of transparency and support for smes to be able to benefit more from this fund. all my amendments were endorsed by the ep. i did not support amendments which went beyond the framework of the programme or which would lead to a significant change to the basis for the programme, as that is not necessary in my opinion. in the final vote i supported the texts as proposed by the ep.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it touches upon what i consider absolutely central to any external action of the european union: protection and promotion of human rights in all the regions of the world. the eu has the reputation of being a union of states which share a very high level of human rights for their citizens. we should emphasise that also in our cooperation with third countries beyond eu borders. that is one of the key aspects of the eu’s added value in the international field.
in writing. ‒ i was sorry that i could not support the 2015 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter. i believe that it dealt with important and pressing issues, but this report, which was supposed to be independent and impartial, too often slipped into political declarations, which i could not accept.
in writing. i voted against it. i do not agree with the call for member states to provide free access to education, housing and healthcare for migrants. i do not agree with the call for a single eu asylum system. on the contrary, i believe that the czech republic should retain its functioning asylum system and not be subject to any common european one.
in writing. today we discussed the 2015 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the eu's policy on the matter. the report contains a number of alarming statements, such as the fact that one in every 200 children in the world is a child refugee, and the number of child refugees doubled between 2005 and 2015, and the alarming figures for internally displaced persons from iraq and syria, as well as from ukraine, which totaled 1.4 million in 2015. i agree with some of the key ideas, such as the need to address the global problem of poverty and malnutrition-related diseases as well as the lack of access to medicines. as i am not a supporter of the concept of migration policy as it is framed in the report, and i am not at all sure that the union itself can serve as a model of someone who fully respects human rights and can set an example, i abstained in the vote on the report as a whole.
in writing. i supported the 2015 report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter, which includes, inter alia, combating all forms of discrimination, trafficking in human beings, the intersection of trade, business and human rights, persons with disabilities, women's and children's rights, indigenous and minority rights, international humanitarian law, freedom of thought, conscience and religion or belief, freedom of expression online and offline and through audiovisual and other media sources, combating terrorism or the death penalty. in this context, i believe that the eu should maintain an ambitious policy towards the worldwide abolition of the death penalty in line with the eu guidelines on the death penalty, revised in 2013, and continue to fight against the death penalty. in the context of the fight against illegal migration, i fully support the launch of the european union naval force operation in the mediterranean (eu navfor med), which is an effective means of combating migrant smuggling, and therefore the eu should continue and intensify operations of this kind.
in writing. according to united nations statistics, 65.3 million people were forcibly displaced during 2015. another 21.3 million were officially designated refugees. while this is regrettable, i believe that these figures alone have sufficient narrative value. i voted for the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world last year because i fully agree with its call for the european union and its member states to do the same. the situation of respect for human rights and democracy deteriorated in several places in 2015. the second european union action plan on human rights and democracy and its implementation therefore need to be addressed more responsibly. this is also true in the context of the refugee crisis. we must find effective and sustainable solutions that do not lead to the internal implosion of our whole. the european commission, and therefore the union as a whole, still has the advantage of a stronger position in the negotiation of the european accession conditions. it is therefore essential that it seizes this opportunity to seek to improve as much as possible the respect for rights and democratic principles in the candidate countries or in countries identified as potential candidates. it also needs to reflect these elements in other external policies as consistently as possible.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to introduce parliament’s human rights annual report as a response to the eu annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2015. the importance of the report is that it underlines the fact that the universality of human rights is being challenged in many parts of the world. i must stress that the eu should ensure coherence between its internal and external policies with regard to respect for human rights. i fully support the s&d rapporteur, who diligently included the accounts of the human rights of women and children, migrants, refugees, asylum seekers, lgbti persons and indigenous people, and assessed how they are affected by counter—terrorism, trade or development measures. on migration, i emphasise the urgent need for long-term and coherent solutions based on human rights, given the growing number of human rights abuses against refugees, irregular migrants and asylum seekers on their route to europe. on business and human rights, i insist that human rights clauses should systematically be introduced in all international agreements. we must move forward to continue improving human rights, outlined in this report, in the face of the migrant crisis and big business.
in writing. human rights violations are unfortunately a daily reality in many places in the world, and these days we are witnessing, for example, the further escalation of the conflict in syria by president assad, or the recent bombing of humanitarian convoys. i welcome the fact that this report stands up for religious freedom, especially for christians in the middle east. yet, i could not support this report for reasons of conscience, since some parts of it are in direct conflict with the protection of unborn life.
in writing. i supported the 2015 annual report on democracy in the world and the eu's policy in this area because it recognises that the european union and its common foreign and security policy are founded on the promotion of democracy, the rule of law and the universality of fundamental human rights. the report highlights the ongoing violence and discrimination against religious minorities around the world and calls for the protection of these minorities. in the context of the migration crisis, it points out that conflicts, wars and dysfunctional governments are the main causes of migration , distinguishing between migrants and refugees and advocates a comprehensive long-term approach towards creating functioning societies through development aid and investment. but it also stresses that trade and human rights must go hand in hand.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on human rights and democracy promotes the centrality of human rights in eu external policies. the report laments the state of human rights and democracy in 2015, which has come increasingly under threat. further, the report called on the eu institutions and member states to promote democracy and the rule of law and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. i voted in favour of the report as it places human rights at the centre of the eu’s relations with all third countries, reinforcing the eu’s commitments to the protection of european values worldwide.
madam president, i did not support this report. i simply have reservations about these very ambitious reports which seek to solve all the global problems, when the european union then fails to put them into practice. i'll give you just three examples. we failed in syria. what has been happening in the last few days is basically a defeat for the west, a defeat for the european union. we have allowed iran to win de facto and to take the next step on the path to regional hegemony, which is definitely not in our interest. another example, we have no clarity on policy towards turkey. the european parliament says something different, the european commission does something different, the european council does something different, so we should also be clear on this. we seem to be confused, even as regards the future of transatlantic relations. so far, i haven't seen anyone from the european union trying to establish a relationship with the newly formed trump administration. so, please, let's deal with practical problems and not get bogged down in ambitious reports.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it gives a very good and realistic perspective on the union’s common foreign and security policy. it is one of the policies which should strengthen the eu’s position at the international level and make the eu more visible. i may have some criticism of the work of the eu delegation abroad, but overall i think the eeas and its services are on the right track. finally, better integrating defence and security matters into the cfsp and the eu’s external actives is a way forward, especially when the tackling security challenges of these days.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. it was based on eu-nato cooperation, welcomed president juncker's proposal to create a european defence fund to support research and innovation and supported the creation of a european army linked to nato. i am convinced that these proposals do not reflect the wishes of europeans and are ill-considered steps that will not lead to an increase in security in the eu.
in writing. i voted against. the report begins by absurdly stating that the 'eu is one of the greatest achievements in the history of europe'. it then calls for the creation of an eu army, including a 'permanent military headquarters', a 'military planning unit' and a 'council for defence matters'. countries that want to cooperate militarily have nato, and creating an eu army with parallel command is nonsense. seeing as how the czech republic was voted down on the quota issue, i don't want to see a vote down on the military action issue. let us take a warning from the military action of france and its allies in libya in 2011, which led to chaos, civil war, the seizure of power by the islamic state and a huge wave of migration that threatens the whole of european civilization and the security of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed a report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. i would regard the report as militant, it speaks of the need to increase the financial and personnel resources for the european defence agency, as well as the idea of building a common european army, which i do not agree with. a large section is also devoted to the smear of russia for being aggressive, provoking conflict and threatening the security and cybersecurity of europe and the need to continue and, preferably, deepen sanctions against russia. the emphasis on the role of nato is also part of this report. since most of the ideas contained in it run counter to my convictions, i voted against the report.
in writing. i supported the non-legislative report calling, inter alia, for the eu to finally start using the instruments provided for by the lisbon treaty, in particular permanent structured cooperation in the field of defence (pesco), and to proceed to deepen the csdp, in particular by creating a permanent civilian and military command, strengthening civil-military cooperation and improving the eu's emergency response capability, strengthening the eu's rapid response tools in particular by increasing the availability of combat groups and strengthening the eurocorps, which will be used more in csdp missions and operations.
in writing. - i consider the european union to be one of the greatest achievements in the history of europe. the eu has brought peace, stability and prosperity to its citizens and to its neighbouring countries, many of which are now eu member states. i believe that the current political situation in the world is so unstable that the eu, as a guarantor of peace, must confront it, or it may be dragged into conflicts caused by extreme islamism or russian expansionism. i believe that the creation of a so-called defence union and the deepening of eu integration, especially for defence purposes, is one of the best ways to preserve peace in europe. i also believe that the eu should focus more on resolving the war in syria, because the best help we can give to refugees who are migrating en masse to europe is to provide them with a safe home.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the implementation of the eu's common foreign and security policy, the main author of which is elmar brok, long-time chairman of the committee on foreign affairs in our epp group. the resolution appropriately points to the increased need for coordination of military matters within the eu and for better military readiness to respond to potential threats. i also agree that it is good to recall the commitments of the member countries towards nato, especially with regard to the 2% of gdp defence spending that many countries, including the czech republic, should start to respect. the text also makes no mention of other avenues of influence on the cfsp, in particular through development aid and diplomatic channels. i would like to highlight the great potential for european culture to have a positive impact in the world, for example through the involvement of third countries in eu programmes to promote culture, education and research. on key foreign policy issues, the resolution is moving in the right direction. he again criticizes russia for its aggressive policy towards ukraine and calls on china to maintain peaceful relations in the region, including taiwan.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy, because it stresses the need for a common approach by the member states to promote and defend the interests of the european union in the world. it also draws attention to the increasingly interlinked issue of external and internal security, which also needs to be addressed together, also in view of the global nature of threats such as terrorism, disinformation campaigns or cybercrime. the report also states that foreign policy must be based on defence, development and diplomacy. the european union has the potential to be a diplomatic superpower, but it must be able to use its hard power to complement its soft power. that is, to increase its defense capabilities.
in writing. ‒ the common foreign security policy aims to strengthen the eu’s ability to act externally through the development of military capabilities in conflict prevention and crisis management. the report on the implementation of the common foreign security policy assesses the role of the cfsp in the context of current and future risks facing the eu. more importantly, the report calls for a stronger external policy with the aim of safeguarding europe’s interests and values, at home and abroad. i voted in favour of the report because i share the same vision of a stronger global and external engagement strategy as key priority for the stability and security of europe.
in writing. ‒ i support the report presented and believe that the eu's common security and defence policy should be clearly strengthened. the csdp has the potential to play a unique and complementary role in the field of global security, but i feel that member states are not aware of this. the current problem is undoubtedly the willingness of states to contribute to their own defence and the general reluctance to deal with defence at a collective level. i personally think that at this point it is not so important whether security is ensured by the cooperation of the armed forces of the states or by joint european units. it is important that the european union is able to respond quickly and effectively to current security threats and challenges. the eu countries should therefore now aim to maintain a level of defence spending of 2% of gdp and improve cooperation between national armed forces.
in writing. the report presents four main proposals to mitigate the impact of fluctuations on the agricultural market. these are improvements in crisis management and sector organisation, continued use of price monitoring centres and further development of risk management tools. the market developments in the agricultural sector are less predictable than in other areas due to its dependence on climatic influences, and i therefore supported the adoption of measures whose main objective is to correct the volatile situation on the agricultural market.
in writing. i voted against. the resolution calls for a more vigorous eu policy, which will be linked to fairer and more profitable prices. in other words, the report calls for stronger regulation, stronger influence on market prices in agriculture. on the contrary, i believe that european agriculture needs less regulation and less subsidies to bring about market alignment and more stable prices.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the adopted report, i fully share the recommendation that the market-oriented cap should further develop climate, health and economic risk management tools, in particular the different types of insurance against risks in agricultural production, income stabilisation tools, mechanisms for individual services and equity funds, in order to limit the impact of price volatility and to promote future-oriented management of agricultural holdings. the commission should promote the exchange of best practices between member states and develop new tools to prevent and effectively manage risks associated with price volatility, thereby laying the foundations for the discussion of future cap reforms.
in writing. i supported the report by rapporteur a. delahay on the instruments of the common agricultural policy designed to reduce price volatility on agricultural markets. the resolution adopted de facto describes the current situation on agricultural markets and proposes a number of active solutions to mitigate the fluctuations in agricultural prices. i consider the provision calling on the commission to create an eu legislative framework prohibiting unfair trading practices in the food chain to be absolutely essential. following the june resolution on unfair trading practices by the rapporteur, mr e. cezsak, of the imco committee, in which i participated as shadow rapporteur, this is another of the specific calls by the european parliament to the commission, this time from the agri committee, to finally address the current imbalance of power between the various actors in the food chain.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report on instruments to reduce price volatility on agricultural markets. farmers are often exposed to price volatility due to many factors, whether natural or economic, such as exchange rates or the prices of fertilisers and energy. the risk of price volatility can not only lead to insecurity among farmers in terms of securing their livelihood and income, but can also discourage many young start-up farmers from starting a business. it is therefore necessary to confront the volatility of agricultural prices, to look for the causes of the problem and to find appropriate solutions. the report presents some ideas that can be supported and developed further. these include, for example, the adoption of appropriate measures to support agriculture in less-favoured regions and, in particular, the strengthening of the bargaining power of producers through the creation of standardised and balanced collective agreements, which can ultimately guarantee protection against unfair trading practices by retail chains. i also welcome the consideration of the possibility of more frequent use of so-called derivatives, i.e. contracts where the price for a certain quantity of commodity is fixed, better information on eib financing programmes and the creation of a european centre for monitoring the prices of agricultural products from the producer to the final selling price.
in writing. ‒ the constant rise in agricultural prices on the world markets since the financial crisis in 2007 have resulted in price volatility in agricultural markets everywhere. as a result, price volatility has become a high priority on the international political agenda. the eu’s common agricultural policy (cap) is a set of mechanisms that were developed to help curb volatility. however, the cap tools have proven to be inefficient and therefore little used by member states. i voted in favour of the report, which asks that the cap tools be looked at and scrutinised, and additional solutions be proposed in order to render effective cap, with the aim of helping to curb volatility in agricultural markets.
in writing. greece has come a long way since the beginning of the crisis in 2009. so far, it has brought with it a reminder in the form of a national debt representing as much as 177.4 percent of gross domestic product and unemployment of 23 percent. these figures remind him not only of the fact that providing distorted statistics can have a very unpleasant or for many even catastrophic outcome, but also of the end to which blind neoliberal economic policies lead. i am very pleased that greece is still a member of the european union and its smaller currency union, the eurozone. but i would like to point out in this context that meeting the requirements imposed by the international monetary fund and the european commission is one thing. the second, but nonetheless indispensable, is to ensure acceptable living and working conditions for the employed and unemployed. they are also european citizens. so do we really want to allow a fundamental right such as the right to collective bargaining to be taken away in a developed country belonging to one of the largest economic blocs, which has been serving europe for months as a so-called buffer in the wave of migration? do we really think it is appropriate to replace traditional work commitments with short-term and unstable ones? we are not only violating the basic elements of a social europe, but we are also violating the provisions of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which we ourselves adopted in 2000 and 2007.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, visa liberalisation is a valuable political tool for the european union which also offers significant advantages for the citizens of the third countries concerned. at the same time, for the security of eu citizens, we need an efficient suspension mechanism to avoid any abuse. this upgraded mechanism makes it easier to alert the commission to irregularities and emergencies that could justify a reintroduction of visa requirements. it was not easy to reach an agreement. both institutions had strong views on how this mechanism should be activated. both parliament and council had to make concessions, resulting in a two-step approach which i believe in the end does not affect the main objective of this proposal; but we lost time due to the interinstitutional in-fighting. the council made this agreement a prerequisite for approving new liberalisation agreements such as those with georgia and ukraine. even though we reached an agreement on the mechanism, it seems member states are still delaying those liberalisation agreements. ukraine and georgia made enormous efforts to reform and fulfil our criteria. it is up to us now to deliver and be a reliable partner. the european parliament is more than ready, and i call on the member states not to delay the visa liberalisation any more.
mr president, commissioner, first of all, let me thank and congratulate mr díaz de mero on the excellent work he has done on this material. i'm a little surprised by the reaction of my colleague batten and others who have reacted here that we will really have people from ukraine or georgia coming to us. it's just a bunch of nonsense, my friend. you're scaring the public again months after the brexit referendum. i think a lot of the mechanisms here in the european union have not worked in the context of the migration crisis. and here's the attempt to re-establish this mechanism and implement it in effective ways, under pre-determined conditions. at the moment, actually, the suspension is very slow because we don't have enough flexibility. this instrument that has just been negotiated gives us that flexibility. that's why i support this motion and i support what was negotiated.
commissioner, the european parliament will decide tomorrow on the mechanism for suspending the issuance of short-stay visas. it is a necessary condition for visa liberalisation for ukraine and georgia. i hope that the european parliament will approve this mechanism and that citizens of these countries will be able to travel for short stays without a visa from next year. ukraine and georgia have fulfilled all contractual commitments set out in the action plans, including investments in border guards or biometric passports. i am a strong advocate of the closest possible ties between the european union and the eastern partnership countries, in particular ukraine. visa liberalisation is a tangible benefit for citizens and businesses and will improve the perception of the european union in the areas concerned. we can reassure our citizens that the mechanism under discussion is there to protect against increased migration flows and abuse of the system for longer illegal stays.
mr president, i too join in congratulating the rapporteur, because this is a truly honourable piece of work. i would just like to say at the outset that it is essential to me that this proposal actually brings flexibility, accessibility, that it is a proposal which makes possible the conditions for the abolition of the visa requirement. i would like to say only on the margin of what is said in relation to ukraine and georgia that they will already be exempt from this visa requirement this proposal only sets up a certain mechanism for how they can be exempt from this visa requirement, but it does not mean that this exemption is already taking place. we will not be voting on such a proposal until february, if i am not mistaken. i would also like to stress that this form of aid to these two countries is absolutely necessary and should not be delayed any further by us. i think we owe it to these countries.
we have repeatedly stressed the need to increase europol's powers more and more. and i couldn't agree more. however, increased powers must go hand in hand with strengthening the organisation's internal structure, internal rules and staff discipline. otherwise, i fear that there may be a breach of trust not only in europol itself, but above all in the trust between member states, on which all this cooperation in criminal matters is based and without which the eu itself cannot function. we all need to be vigilant about how we handle the information and data that we have access to and work with. we have to take it for granted. however, at europol, this is particularly sensitive data, which, in the extreme, can endanger the eu as a whole. data that relates to individual cases of crime, organized crime, or even terrorism. i firmly believe that the leadership of europol, led by rob wainwright, will ensure that a similar situation is never repeated, that it has no negative impact and, above all, that it does not affect cooperation between member states, which has been on an excellent path to achieve the best possible results.
mr president, i was a member from the ecr group of the same delegation that visited cairo only last week. i left just one day before that terrorist attack, and after all meetings we had there with president el-sisi and grand imam of al-azhar and other dignitaries, i still have the feeling that we owe egypt something. we owe egypt clear support in its fight against terrorism, but also fair and balanced treatment. we have adopted many critical resolutions on egypt here in the european parliament, maybe too many, unlike in the case of some other countries. we also recognise the right of other countries to take very tough measures against terrorist threats, for instance in the case of turkey. we should recognise the same right for egypt, because egypt is a key player in the region and its stability and security are crucial and vital, and also very important for europe.
commissioner, the development, manufacture and use of medicinal products in general is a highly technical area and also a very sensitive one, especially in relation to paediatric patients. the purpose of the 2006 regulation is to promote the development of medicinal products for paediatric populations and to obtain new valid information on the properties of medicinal products for paediatric use and to obtain information on the use of such medicinal products. the 2013 report on the implementation of this regulation identified certain shortcomings and committed the commission to adopt new measures. it turns out that the process is not fast enough yet. there is still a lack of information on the development of medicines and there is insufficient support for the development of these new medicines. i think the commissioner has heard it repeatedly here. as my colleague, dr. miroslav mikulášik, says, a child is not a diminished adult, so children need specific medications tailored to their development and specific illnesses. commissioner, thank you for your answer. but you have heard from us repeatedly that we are not satisfied with the speed with which the commission is proceeding in this area. we ask you to increase your commitment to and support of pediatric drug research.
madam chairman, i support the call to stop the demolitions in the tibetan larung garu. we are concerned to see how china is trying to restrict the free development of religion and independent spiritual life not only here but also in other religions and in this very great institute, the monastic city of larung gar. the demolition and expulsion of monks under the pretext of rehabilitating an overcrowded site is a serious violation of tibetan cultural autonomy. if we thought that monasteries outside the borders of the tibetan autonomous region enjoyed greater freedom, it is not so. as vice-chair of the committee on culture and education, i see not only the human rights aspect of this problem, but also the cultural dimension. tibetan culture, tibetan buddhism and related sites are important world cultural heritage and inspiration for many people in the west. china should realize that it cannot just arbitrarily handle these goods, but must protect and care for them. the so-called tibetan separatism that china keeps talking about is really just a non-violent effort for cultural and religious autonomy that we support.
the european union takes it for granted that we do everything possible to ensure that minorities living in our territory are not discriminated against, let alone persecuted or prosecuted. but all of this is not happening in all parts of this world, like in burma or if you want myanmar. the treatment of the rohingya muslim minority here is completely unacceptable. its members are killed without cause and their rights are completely curtailed. i am therefore pleased to have this resolution which calls on the burmese government not only to strengthen respect for human rights in their country but also to prevent any expression of religious or racial hatred, especially against the rohingya minority. the european union regards burma as a partner and is certainly willing to cooperate with it in the future. but such cooperation is not possible if we ignore this violation of human rights.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this is not the first time we have discussed the plight of the rohingya in this house. what more can i say, other than that we need to continue demanding that the burmese government do its duty and protect – instead of persecute – these people? whether or not you view them as your citizens, you have a duty: a duty to protect the lives and livelihoods of people who reside on your territory. these people are not foreigners. the vast majority are people who were born and raised in myanmar, as were their fathers and mothers before them. sadly, if the burmese government does not do its duty, they are likely to perish not peacefully, as all humans should, but instead at the hands of their fellow countrymen and the military. the rakhine state is, and always will be, part of myanmar. it is time the rohingya can truly feel that they are part of that state.
mr president, commissioner, it is clear that the so-called islamic state has committed and is committing the crime of genocide. they are trying to systematically liquidate members of religious minorities who have lived in various parts of iraq or syria for centuries or millennia. in addition to eliminating isis and providing humanitarian assistance to the victims, it is necessary to ensure that these crimes do not go unpunished. i think there is room for the european union, which unfortunately is not yet sufficiently militarily capable, but can play a crucial role in collecting the maximum amount of evidence on the crimes of isis, in upholding the rules of international humanitarian law in the liberated territories, and in giving the returning population all their rights so that they can fully rebuild their existence.
in writing. today we discussed a joint motion for a resolution on mass graves in iraq. the resolution draws attention to the difficult situation in iraq, where the so-called islamic state is committing war crimes and crimes against humanity, as evidenced by the discovery of several mass graves. we also draw attention to the unprecedented abduction and abuse of women and young girls, as well as the need to provide assistance to all family members of victims, including logistical and psychological support. the resolution expresses the conviction that all perpetrators of these most serious crimes must be brought before an international criminal court. i condemn this violation of international humanitarian law and international law in the strongest possible terms and therefore have no choice but to support the resolution as it stands.
mr president, i supported this proposal because it is really about implementing a more flexible and accessible visa policy. i would like to comment in particular on the question of ukraine and georgia, because it was very tense in the plenary. i would like to point out that there is no question of lifting the visa requirement at this time. the mechanism set out in the proposal allows for these two states to be moved to a group where visa exemption will be granted more quickly. but it's not until february, based on our next meeting, that we'll actually vote on this. the czech republic has already reported that the visa requirement has been lifted for ukraine and georgia. it hasn't happened yet, but i look forward to supporting these two states in the next vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution and i welcome this much needed agreement on visa liberalisation with ukraine and georgia. it was about time for us to send the positive signal to both countries that the eu counts on them and keeps its word. especially, in the case of ukraine, we really need to show ukrainians that the eu is not letting them down. if we did it, i am sure someone else would be more than happy to use this opportunity. i am glad we understand that and we are able to move forward on another level of partnership with these countries.
in writing. ‒ visa liberalisation is a valuable political tool for the eu, which also offers significant advantages for citizens of the third countries concerned. at the same time, for the security of eu citizens, we need an efficient mechanism to avoid any abuse. this upgraded suspension mechanism makes it easier to alert the commission about irregularities and emergencies that could justify a reintroduction of visa requirements. the council made this agreement a prerequisite for approving new liberalisation agreements, such as those with georgia and ukraine. both countries have made enormous efforts to reform and fulfil our criteria; it is up to us now to deliver and be a reliable partner. parliament is more than ready, member states should not delay the talks anymore.
in writing. i am pleased that after long negotiations, the council and parliament have reached agreement on the new terms of the suspension mechanism for visa-free countries with the eu. the updating of the suspension mechanism was, inter alia, a condition for the final lifting of visa-free travel with georgia or ukraine, which is otherwise already being negotiated. the specific suspension mechanism allows for the temporary suspension of visa-free travel for third-country nationals under precisely defined conditions. the current version has been criticised by the member states for being too rigid and not allowing the flexibility of the instrument (which is why the suspension mechanism has never been activated). i am convinced that the new wording gives the eu and its member states sufficient scope for a rapid solution in the event that visa-free travel with a given country needs to be suspended. i am a long-time supporter of the introduction of visa-free travel to ukraine and georgia, and i would like to remind you that visa-free travel to ukraine was promised before the 2012 european football championship. i am convinced that the abolition of the short-stay visa requirement will make a significant contribution to the socioeconomic development of these countries. in addition, visa-free access is only possible for persons with a biometric passport. in this respect, i would like to recall that it is much easier to obtain a fake paper visa than to forge a biometric passport, so the impact on enhancing security in the eu is also clear.
in writing. i supported the report on the proposal for a revision of the eu short-stay visa regulation, which concerned the introduction of a mechanism for the suspension of the issuance of short-stay visas (the 'rescue brake'). the agreement on the visa liberalisation for ukraine and georgia was a necessary condition for this. the ep has approved the mechanism and citizens of these countries will be able to travel to the eu without a visa from next year (after formal approval, probably in february). ukraine and georgia have fulfilled all contractual obligations set out in the action plans, including anti-corruption measures, border protection, investments in border guards and biometric passports. i am a strong advocate of the closest possible links between the eu and the eastern partnership countries, in particular ukraine. visa liberalisation is a tangible benefit for citizens and businesses and will improve the perception of the eu in the countries concerned. we can reassure citizens that the mechanism under discussion is there to protect against sudden migration flows and abuse of the system for longer-term illegal stays.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the eu visa waiver suspension mechanism aims to reduce restrictions for eu citizens to travel to countries outside the eu, as well as facilitating travel to the eu for citizens of third countries, boosting tourism and businesses. visa liberalisation also acts as a strong mechanism for promoting reforms in third countries, notably reforms on fundamental rights and the rule of law. i voted in favour of the eu visa waiver suspension mechanism for georgia, ukraine and kosovo because visa liberalisation would greatly benefit the economic, social and political standing of the eu and the third countries alike.
in writing. ‒ the long-running migration crisis has shown that a large number of eu instruments are not working. i therefore believe that these mechanisms need to be revised and that we need to respond flexibly to current migration developments. i consider the possibility of reintroducing visas to be important, especially in the event that one of the member states is faced with an intolerable influx of applicants. i also support the adoption of this proposal because it is an important step towards visa liberalisation with ukraine and georgia, which have fulfilled all the contractual commitments set out in the action plans.
in writing. ‒ the protective measures against the introduction of citrus fruit organisms into the eu overrules decisions made by eu scientists and researchers. the resolution proposed unnecessary measures for third countries wanting to import citrus fruits into the eu, in the unfounded fear that the introduction of new organisms would be harmful to existing organism communities in certain regions. i voted against the resolution because, in reality, it would mean a total stop of citrus imports from some countries, decreasing the supply and availability of citrus fruits, and therefore would increase the prices for eu consumers. further, the resolution would go against already existing legislation that is scientifically supported, and would impose futile, stricter and unnecessary measures.
mr president, i too would like to begin by expressing my solidarity with the victims of this tragedy, which happened many years ago but cannot be forgotten. we need to remember how the cause began and help the victims who are still among us. it's not just a matter of compensation, it's a matter of practical life, where these people need help with health insurance costs, with medical expenses, they have many times higher needs, precisely in terms of their health care. i think this is something that europe owes them, and i am very pleased that this has been brought up in the european parliament and that we will be able to see how the commission tries to prepare legislative proposals so that we are able to specifically help these victims.
in writing. on 15 december 2016, we voted in favour of a resolution in support of the survivors of the thalidomide tragedy at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg. the thalidomide tragedy was one of the main reasons for the creation of eu pharmaceutical legislation, which has since been designed to ensure that medicines placed on the market guarantee a high standard of quality and safety to european citizens. thalidomide was used in the late 1950s and early 1960s as a medicine for morning sickness in pregnant women, as well as for headaches, insomnia and colds. this treatment has been commercially available in various european countries for several years, but only ex post has it been shown to have serious side effects, especially in pregnant women whose children were subsequently born with congenital malformations. this tragedy has affected several eu countries, whose survivors face daily serious and worsening physical consequences and indignities in reimbursing the cost of their treatment. the resolution was tabled following an oral question to the commission and a debate in plenary in march this year. i believe that the states concerned should amend their legislation to adequately compensate the victims of this tragedy while also providing them with the best possible care. that's why i voted for this resolution.
‒ the impact of thalidomide use by pregnant women on thousands of children needs to be addressed. it is completely unacceptable that the manufacturer of this substance apologized to those who have to live with the disability caused by its product only in 2012. as victims age, their health problems worsen and the cost of appropriate care increases. all those who have to live with the disability caused by thalidomide should therefore receive compensation guaranteeing a decent living conditions, regardless of the country in which they live.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the anti-morning sickness drug thalidomide. it was created in 1953 in germany by the grünenthal group. thalidomide was marketed in a number of european countries including spain, italy, germany, the uk and ireland and led to the birth of children with severe malformations. thalidomide was pulled from the market in 1961 after it was linked to birth defects but many victims have only recently received compensation. the thalidomide tragedy caused immense physical suffering and emotional hardship for the victims and their families. the drug approval regulatory framework in europe has since greatly evolved with the overarching objective being to better safeguard human health.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed the motion for a resolution on the regulation of paediatric medicinal products. in the eu, we have a paediatric regulation which has a significant impact on the development of medicines for paediatric use. however, the findings indicate that there is a lack of progress in a number of areas, in particular in paediatric oncology and neonatology. we are saddened to note that more than 6,000 young people die of cancer each year. we also criticise the current mechanism whereby paediatric research plans are approved only after very complex negotiations between regulators and pharmaceutical companies. we call on the commission to consider changes, including an intermediate review of the paediatric medicines regulation, in the light of these findings. i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. i supported the kidnapping pointing out the barriers that currently hold back innovation in the development of medicines for pediatric use. these findings suggest the need for a legislative review of the paediatric medicines regulation addressing paediatric drug development plans, incentives to stimulate research more and better meet the needs of paediatric patients, and strategies to avoid paediatric medicines being used outside the scope of marketing authorisation decisions. i consider it important to call on the commission to consider amending the paediatric regulation so that a clinical trial with promise for the paediatric population cannot be terminated prematurely due to unsatisfactory results in the targeted adult patient population.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to provide guidance to the commission on where further action is needed to make the regulation fit for purpose. in particular, the text asks the commission to examine whether the current rewards system needs improvement, to consider drug prioritisation models and a shift to a mechanism-of-action based development strategy for cancer drugs. it places particular emphasis on paediatric oncology and rare diseases where the therapeutic needs are greatest.
in writing. ‒ today we took note of the report on the activities of the committee on petitions for 2015. this committee is important because it is the means by which citizens can approach parliament for help. the working schedule of the committee on petitions does not correspond to the legislative programme of the european commission, but is therefore shaped by the citizens themselves. the annual statistics for 2015 show that the european parliament received 1 431 petitions. most citizens ask for help in the areas of the environment, justice, the internal market or fundamental rights. the rapporteur notes in her report that the main problem is that citizens do not receive sufficiently substantiated replies declaring their petitions inadmissible, and that the committee is delayed in dealing with petitions. i consider the right of appeal to be an important right of every citizen to turn to the european parliament, for example in cases of inadequate application of european rules by a member state or non-compliance with community rules. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. i would like to point out from the content of the approved report that a web portal has been made available to petitioners, where they can register, submit a petition, download supporting documents and join petitions that have already been assessed as admissible. it would be appropriate to take further steps towards completing the remaining stages of the web portal on petitions, where petitioners will be able to receive updates on the status of their petition and will be alerted by automatic messages to changes in the procedure such as the admissibility declaration, receipt of a reply from the commission or the inclusion of a petition on the agenda of a committee meeting, including a link to the relevant webcast. i would also like to point out the adoption of regulation 910/2014/eu on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market, stating that the ep committee on petitions and all eu institutions should accept documents signed by electronic signature from all 28 eu member states.
in writing. i consider the right to petition the european parliament to be one of the pillars of european citizenship. the 2015 annual report aims to provide an overview of the activities of the committee on petitions, whose work schedule is shaped by citizens themselves in the exercise of their right to petition. the purpose of this annual report is to give an accurate and complete account of the activities of the committee on petitions. this report also reflects other aspects such as relations with other european institutions and national and regional authorities. statistics show that in 2015 the european parliament received 1 431 petitions, which is 47% less than in 2014. the previous years (2013 and 2014) were arguably the strongest in terms of the number of petitions received. the significant decrease in 2015 (by almost half) is likely to reflect a change in trend following the sustained increase in the number of petitions received during the previous election period. personally, i regard this as a positive indicator of the mood in society, showing that eu citizens are satisfied with its activities.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this annual report is to give an overview of activities of the committee on petitions, whose work is not tied to the commission’s legislative program but based on citizens’ petitions. the committee on petitions listens to and helps to solve problems affecting citizens directly. the petitions can help to better assess the impact that eu legislation has on people’s daily lives by acting as a bridge between citizens and the institutions. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the right to petition represents the opportunity for citizens to express their concern for issues such as fundamental rights, child welfare, disabled people, minority rights, etc. the report serves as an excellent tool to improve its functioning.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported the text of the resolution on international aviation agreements. in december 2015, the european commission detailed its intention to negotiate new air and safety agreements with some of the strategic partners of the eu. in line with the lisbon treaty and the increased role of the european parliament, i find it of particular importance that the european parliament be fully informed at all stages of the negotiations. i believe it will contribute to the success of the negotiations and broad acceptance by the citizens. i respect that the commission leads the negotiations on behalf of the european union and therefore agree that, for the sake of good negotiations, some elements may be sensitive, but i trust that the parliamentarians and the staff involved will guarantee the confidential nature of such information wherever necessary.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for this detailed debate. i'd probably have to repeat myself in many things with my pre-speakers, but i'm mentioning one of the things that wasn't mentioned here. when the modernisation of the customs union was launched in 2003 with the aim of introducing a paperless environment, it was important to move quickly. perhaps, let us say, as soon as possible, so that the european union can catch up with the rest of the world. i was therefore pleased to read in several documents that 98% of customs declarations submitted in the european union are already in electronic form. but, commissioner, this is the 21st century. is 98% really a lot or a little? in a time when we face increasing globalization of trade and global crime or terrorism, is that number really sufficient? the customs 2020 programme, together with the new customs code, are certainly logical, the right steps to take in continuing to modernise the whole customs union, which exchanges information in real time. as the rapporteur has already mentioned, it is very important that this modernisation should take place in the same way across all the countries of the european union. we need to keep track of all the goods that cross the eu's borders, and in the digital age, we can only do that if everything is recorded electronically and countries can then exchange information effectively. i therefore fully support the efforts of the european commission and most member states to electronicise communications between customs offices and to replace old technologies with new, reliable and, above all, safe ones. in conclusion, mr president, allow me to take this short time to wish you all a very happy holiday and a very happy new year, as well as to thank you and the interpreters present here for your work, and i firmly believe that you need our work as much as we need yours.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all of the honourable members for their comments and for the importance they attach to the implementation of the union customs code. i believe that our two institutions share the same objective of wishing to modernise customs for the benefit of both trade and administrators. i would like to address some of the points made in the debate. it is certainly true that further work is needed, particularly with regard to new trade simplifications, such as centralised clearance, which depend on eu wide it systems. however, i would like to underline that the commission is committed to continue working in these areas, in close collaboration with member states and trade representatives. you commented on the fact that the ucc was not the subject of an impact assessment. in fact, this was deemed unnecessary because a detailed impact assessment had already been carried out on the modernised customs code. turning to e-commerce: i would like to stress that the simplifications that existed before the ucc for express carriers importing low-value goods continue to exist during the ucc transitional period. finally, i would like to confirm the commission’s commitment to continue to cooperate closely with parliament so as to ensure that the eu customs policies indeed are effective, proportionate and fit for purpose. i wish you all a happy new year and merry christmas, and i thank you for this excellent debate today. dziękuję bardzo, panie przewodniczący!
in writing. – a well-functioning customs code is essential to a well-functioning single market. this is not possible if member states do not respect this code or allow it to be updated to the changing situation on the ground. we need to simplify the complex customs rules and procedures which are particularly detrimental to our smes. we need to complete the digitalisation of custom controls well before the end of the transitional period to do so. for all this, we need action from the council and better controls by the member states and the commission. this is an area that is in theory already harmonised. i simply do not understand why we do not enforce it as such. our borders are only as strong as their weakest point. if a trader can cheat by going to member state a instead of member state b, he will. if a trader knows he will get a smaller fine if he is caught in member state a instead of member state b, he will go there. member states must do their jobs in a way that is standardised, no matter where you are in europe.
