the committee on international trade has adopted a report on the situation in the community. i am not sure that this is the case. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr werner langen, for a good report, and given the limited time i have, i would like to make a few comments on tax policy. the report does recognise the need for better management and coordination of tax policy so that we can avoid abuse. it is also necessary to create fair competition in europe's single market. it is bad for the internal market when tax policy is used aggressively and without transparency to provide better conditions of competition for large companies. we talk a lot about small and mediumsized enterprises in this house, but it is precisely the large companies that are doing this thinking and are managing to move their profits to places where no tax is paid - or almost none - while smes have to pay at the checkout counter. it is positive that there is now a focus on creating a level playing field by looking at tax policy and increasing transparency, both in the taxe committee and in the commission.
for the ecr group. mr president, i think we can all agree here today that a fair and free competition policy is a prerequisite for a functioning market economy. i am therefore also glad that we have a commissioner who dares to take on the big companies that are trying to override the common rules which are the basis of the market and thus the basis of the prosperity and well-being of all european citizens. that said, i must say that i do not entirely share the vision, the thought, the approach of my good conservative colleague, bent bendtsen, with regard to tax policy. many of the problems we have with the use of tax policy by member states can be tackled precisely through competition policy, which is an application of tax policy that favours some companies over others. we do not need a common harmonized tax policy there. we do not need more eu regulation. what we need is a strong and resolute commissioner, and we already have one! that is why mr bent bendtsen: there is no need for all the harmonization that your epp colleague is advocating, and that is why, unfortunately, we in the ecr group will also vote against when we vote on this report later this week. (the speaker agreed to answer a question by way of a blue card (rule 162 (8)).
blue card answer. there are no exceptions to the general rule that all enterprises, large and small, in any sector, must be treated in the same way. it is not lawful for a member state, neither germany, which is a large country, nor luxembourg, which is a small country, at least in geography, to treat competing undertakings differently. i want to make that perfectly clear. and that is within the commission's competence. the point where we say 'from' is when you use that argument to say that you have to harmonize tax policy, whether it be corporate tax policy or personal tax policy or whatever it is. we will not be part of that! we believe that the tools already in place are sufficient to ensure a free market. that was also the whole idea of the european union - not a harmonized common giant, as i know many in this house want.
mr president, i would like to thank mr langen for a great report and commissioner vestager for great work in ensuring a level playing field when it comes to competition; that is very important. there is one thing i would like to raise today, and that relates to the different agreements between member states and multinational corporations. when you reach a finding and establish that these deals that have been made are illegal and that tax revenue has to be paid back, it is a little bit of a provocation, i think, that the tax revenue that has been stolen from other member states by these tax agreements between member states and multinational corporations are not given back to the member states they have been stolen from but that it is actually given to the member states who have made this illegal tax agreement. so, i would like to ask the commission whether it will propose new legislation that will ensure that the ones who are cheating are not being rewarded afterwards; that the cheating member states should pay back the tax revenue either to the member state they cheated or to the eu budget, so that they will receive a real punishment and not a reward.
i have to say, madam president, i fully agree that we must of course have tests to show what cars actually emit when they drive on european roads. we know the lab tests are inconclusive. but it is totally unacceptable that this change in the tests should be used to allow higher levels of nox particulate matter emissions. the proposal is also directly counterproductive in view of the fact that we are currently in the process of drafting legislation, the air package legislation, which also aims to reduce air pollution in the eu. we all do this because we know that hundreds of thousands of european citizens die prematurely every year because of our air pollution problems. we are protesting against the proposal because it is leading to more air pollution, not less. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, can and must do better! now come up with a proposal that provides an effective testing system without loopholes and without compromising the health of citizens.
mr president, let me first of all thank the two rapporteurs for the great work on this important file. with more and more europeans now online, new problems arise. for example, how can we protect our data and information? how can we protect ourselves without compromising our fundamental rights and freedom of speech? i am happy that the report emphasises the importance of encryption as a tool to provide privacy and to ensure a basic level of security. the report also calls for us to ensure that we prevent censorship and that we prevent compromising our freedom of speech on the internet by limiting the liability of service providers. we should not oblige service providers and platforms to constantly monitor their content for illegal content. different platforms should not be substitutes for law enforcement authorities. we also have to remember that, even though we address the digital single market of europe, we do not limit our online behaviour and interaction to just european platforms. for precisely this reason, we have to ensure safe international data transfers. i have to emphasise that an agreement is urgently needed – not least with the americans – on this topic, in order to create legal certainty for european consumers and businesses.
in writing. ‒ equality is a social democratic quirk. we have all worked every day for a society with equal opportunities for all and where no one is discriminated against on grounds of sex. non-discrimination is the guiding principle. this principle should also apply to eu funds. eu funds should be allocated on the basis of the value and nature of the projects, not on the basis of the gender of the applicant. we would like to stress that we find it very problematic that women participate less than men in the labour market, both as employees and as entrepreneurs. a more equal distribution of maternity leave between mothers and fathers could be an instrument for increasing women's participation in the labour market. however, the eu should respect the fact that different national systems exist to ensure a more equitable distribution of maternity leave, where it is provided for in some countries by legislation and in others by the social partners. it should remain up to each member state to decide which system it wishes to use to ensure greater equality in the labour market. we do not think that the eu should legislate on this.
in writing. ‒ equality is a social democratic quirk. we have all worked every day for a society with equal opportunities for all and where no one is discriminated against on grounds of sex. non-discrimination is the guiding principle. this principle should also apply to eu funds. eu funds should be allocated on the basis of the value and nature of the projects, not on the basis of the gender of the applicant. we would like to stress that we find it very problematic that women participate less than men in the labour market, both as employees and as entrepreneurs. a more equal distribution of maternity leave between mothers and fathers could be an instrument for increasing women's participation in the labour market. however, the eu should respect the fact that different national systems exist to ensure a more equitable distribution of maternity leave, where it is provided for in some countries by legislation and in others by the social partners. it should remain up to each member state to decide which system it wishes to use to ensure greater equality in the labour market. we do not think that the eu should legislate on this.
for the ecr group. it would be a very unreasonable exercise of power on the part of the european parliament if it began to interfere with the internal danish legislative procedure. firstly, denmark has a mandate in all this area, which has recently been reaffirmed by the electorate. secondly, if it were to be examined whether denmark is really a democracy or not, it would be the european commission and mr timmermans and not the green group in the european parliament which would initiate investigations. thirdly, it is a proposal which has not yet been adopted by the danish parliament. however, we know from the first reading in the folketing that this is a proposal which enjoys immediate broad support. it is an alde party that has put forward the proposal. it is supported by the s&d party in denmark. it is supported by the epp party in denmark. and it is supported by the ecr party in denmark. perhaps we should respect national democracy instead of playing the role of supreme judge here and judging what is good and bad in each member state.
mr president, the dutch presidency has a chance to bring real and positive change on two issues that i would like to highlight. first of all, a continuing development of the energy union. central to this is to ensure continued development of renewable energy sources and linking the electricity market of europe better and closer, to bring costs down for european citizens and companies. the north sea offers europe an unparalleled opportunity to generate 8% of our electricity supply from wind and other renewables by 2030, while at the same time realising savings of eur 5 to 13 billion a year. in short, i believe the dutch presidency should bring the countries surrounding the north sea together and go for that vision. finally, i think we need to deliver on the fight against tax fraud. in 2016, europe needs to deliver on the conclusions of the european parliament taxe 1 committee. the council especially must now recognise a need for across-the-board country-by-country reporting. we need to fight tax fraud; we need tax justice now.
in writing. ‒ i have objected to the commission's act. i've done it because we have to take care of our children and babies. i understand that the commission's proposal will maintain the european limit values for sugar in baby food, among other things, even though the who recommendations are considerably lower. i also noted that the necessary analysis from the eu's food safety agency efsa is not available. i call on the commission to ensure that the necessary analytical basis is immediately put in place so that the eu's limit values are properly justified and so that we are certain of how the sugar content and processed foods in baby and young child food affect public health. then we can adopt eu rules that make sense and add value for the citizens of europe. i expect the commission to take action immediately.
i have to say, madam president, thank you for a good report. i do not want to repeat all the things that have already been said. i don't have much time. i would just like to emphasize that i think we have had better cooperation, especially with the trade committees. however, there is still room for improvement. i would also like to thank you for your cooperation with the ombudsman. secondly, i would like to point out two things which still need to be improved: firstly, we simply do not have the resources to fulfil our role as a citizens' committee. it should be improved. secondly, we do not have good enough fact-finding missions either. it is one of the best places to meet citizens, and we must strengthen and improve this instrument. and let me just say a little lament: in the nordic countries, denmark, finland and sweden, we have no petitions. that is because they have no idea that the committee exists and they do not understand what it is called. i usually say in my campaigns back home that the work i do back home is "striptease in the dark"! could we not improve it by getting nordic citizens to participate in this work? we have active nordic members on the committee.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i would like to thank the president-in-office. thank you for a good report and thank you for exemplary cooperation. if it ain't broken, don't try to fix it! that's the message you're getting all the way around here. all the fine words about all the things that must also be done sound threatening to our ears! for what we hear is that everything with such a powerful agenda ends up in nothing and uncertainty, as has been repeated so many times here today. no, don't mess with the directives! let them remain, but make sure they are implemented, that they are implemented, and that there is proper control! we know this from all the studies that have been carried out. that's the message we're getting around here. and you know what? i know that you are under tremendous pressure from the commission and i could also be afraid of timmermans, but all of us elected representatives are with you and looking after you! we will make sure that you survive also to stand firmly on the side of nature in this context; make sure that we get a proper implementation, it is mentioned all the way around. i would also mention the aarhus convention, which should now be fully implemented so that we too have access to appeal and review, that is to say, that we can go to court. we have such good tools in this house and in this system if we really want to use them. so listen to the elected representatives, the council, the parliament and the regions.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, first of all, thank you to both the commission and the rapporteurs for your hard work. the single market has created a huge social dumping. workers have been thrown into an unsustainable competition for worse and worse wages and working conditions. it's only gonna get worse when the work is black. it is deeply damaging not only to the individual worker who loses his rights but also to our community. we are losing good, sustainable jobs and we are losing important income taxes. in this light, it is a really good and positive initiative. there is a real need for coordination. but why not go even further? why do we not give member states the freedom and the scope to introduce controls and require registration whenever they see fit? let us look at norway, for example, where a welcoming committee welcomes workers, makes sure that their papers are in order and informs them of their rights. we need to take a hard line against employers who exploit the system and use the single market for social dumping.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the commissioner so much for presenting the corporate tax package. this is a very important step to a fair tax system in europe, with the four pillars you presented. there is no doubt that multinational companies’ tax avoidance is a major threat to our welfare state and to fair competition in europe: eur 2 000 per capita per year. this is what it costs us in tax fraud and tax avoidance: eur 1 trillion a year. it is outrageous how much it costs our societies. imagine what this money could be used for – schools for our kids, education for our young people, investing in jobs and welfare. furthermore, i think there is a very important principle at stake here. when citizens see that multinationals pay almost zero per cent in tax, they question the fundamental function of the state and our institutions. when citizens see that belgium has given 35 multinational companies illegal tax deals, they see that multinationals appear more powerful than the state itself. citizens see that the tax system is unfair. they see injustice. countries and companies violate the law. they need, of course, to be punished. so what can we do to fix a broken system? i think first of all we have to bring transparency and light. why? because multinational companies operate in the shadow of the economy. they use the loopholes they can. as rapporteur for the report on the eu—switzerland agreement on the automatic exchange of information, i know that transparency is the way forward. transparency and information are the building blocks for cooperation between tax authorities in our countries. therefore, as you rightly say, commissioner, we need public country-by-country reporting, and we need to see that so that multinationals pay their taxes and we need to see that they all pay their taxes. i ask you, commissioner – i hope and i beg– that you fight for public country-by-country reporting. this is to ensure tax justice; it is to ensure and protect our welfare state and also our tax base.
in writing. ‒ as agreed in the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994, it is important that we make eu law as easy as possible for european citizens to understand. that is why i support this codification.
in writing. ‒ the approval of the amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution. that is why i support the amendments.
in writing. ‒ the approval of the amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution. that is why i support the amendments.
in writing. ‒ this cooperation agreement with ukraine will support and strengthen the fight against serious crime and will contribute to improving judicial cooperation, in particular in the field of organised crime and terrorism. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ this cooperation agreement with montenegro will support and strengthen the fight against serious crime and will contribute to improving judicial cooperation, in particular in the field of organised crime and terrorism. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ to be a member of the eu, you must have a rule of law. we must therefore trust that the judicial system of the member state can judge when an accusation against a member of the european parliament is strong enough to require the waiver of immunity so that the case can be tried in court. that is why i support the repeal.
in writing. ‒ to be a member of the eu, you must have a rule of law. we must therefore trust that the judicial system of the member state can judge when an accusation against a member of the european parliament is strong enough to require the waiver of immunity so that the case can be tried in court. that is why i support the repeal.
in writing. ‒ to be a member of the eu, you must have a rule of law. we must therefore trust that the judicial system of the member state can judge when an accusation against a member of the european parliament is strong enough to require the waiver of immunity so that the case can be tried in court. that is why i support the repeal.
mr president, denmark has one of the best functioning labour markets, a high level of labour force participation, and a very low level of undeclared work. i would go so far as to say that if it had not been for the problems created by the european union with the free movement of labour and the freedom to move across borders as a service provider, our problems with the black economy would have been minimal. but unfortunately, because of what has happened over the last 10 years, where there has been an insistence that more and more rules should be regulated by the eu, yes, this problem has become increasingly bigger, because it is becoming increasingly difficult for the national authorities to prosecute those who break the rules. what we need is therefore not more regulation here by the eu institutions. no, what we need is for our member countries to be able to prosecute the people who work in the black economy. we need to strengthen the trade union movement, not, as the eu failed, weaken the trade union movement. we need the member states themselves to control welfare payments, etc. so this is fundamentally going in the wrong direction.
in writing. ‒ today, the eu has taken an important first step in tackling the many challenges of undeclared work. with today's law we are creating a european platform that will operate on the basis of experience and the exchange of best practice. it will bring together a wide range of stakeholders, including representatives of member states and cross-sectoral social partners.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have today supported the report, which received a great deal of support. i have noted that paragraph 68 supports the need for a thorough examination of the role of large predators and the possible introduction of regulatory measures. nature is not static, and neither should our rules in this area. the wolf was an endangered predator decades ago, but it's not anymore. there is a need for us to provide for national regulation of wolves here too.
in writing. ‒ thank you to my good colleague, mr demesmaeker, for his work on the report on safeguarding biodiversity in the eu, which i am voting for. the commission's own assessment of the state of biodiversity in the eu is discouraging and it is therefore important that further attention be paid to this issue. however, it is also important that this be done in a balanced way. i welcome the rapporteur's comments that agriculture contributes to biodiversity, which is a very important point to make. i also welcome the report's insistence that the commission should take the initiative to draw up a comprehensive list of invasive species. at the present time, for example, the list does not include the red fox, which is a species we are fighting a lot with in denmark and which is causing great damage to nature there. when we talk about biodiversity, the diversity of national challenges should also be reflected in such a list.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, the mid-term evaluation shows that the eu has a long way to go before it achieves the targets set in 2011 in the 2020 biodiversity strategy. it is therefore important that the commission raises the level of implementation and cross-cutting coordination. the problem is not funding or lack of legislation, but control of member states' enforcement. the commission must take up its role and ensure that we achieve the 2020 targets.
i have to say, madam president, we have a crisis of solidarity in the european union, a crisis which manifests itself in the form of a paralysed european union. for the first time, freedom of movement, which is one of the cornerstones of the european union, is not something we can take for granted. europe has failed, we have failed. neither the institutions nor we politicians have had the answers that the citizens can rightly expect. it is all due to the lack of political will. of course, the eu is the crucial framework if we are to solve the problems together. but the eu is not a button that can be pushed and then everything will work itself out. if the member states do not contribute to the community, if the community does not contribute, then there is no community. and what we are seeing at the moment is that all over europe, governments are talking about common solutions, but they are acting nationally. it is important to say that we all have a responsibility to solve these problems. we must find those solutions together! the member states must also understand and deliver. it is urgent and it can be done at the european summit here in mid-february. so it is a call to the council to act. i think that many of us share the analysis that if we are to have common solutions, it requires willpower, and that willpower must be mobilised here in mid-february.
madam president, mr commissioner, mr foreign minister bert koenders, good to see you again. i think we all know that the dublin system has collapsed, and now schengen is next in line if we do not act. this situation is a direct result of the lack of solidarity and of a common european approach to the refugee crisis. it is due to the lack of efficient control of our european external borders and the fact that too many member states are failing to take their share of refugees. while some count their asylum applications in tens of thousands, others are counting them only in hundreds or even less. member states who are bearing the brunt of the current influx of refugees, such as germany, sweden, denmark, or austria, are being forced, unfortunately, to adopt the extraordinarily harsh asylum laws that we are seeing today. it takes effort to keep up with the huge number of refugees, unfortunately. the reason for all of the problems is that europe is failing to address, first of all, the root causes of the refugee crisis, as well as, of course, failing to cooperate in solidarity. only four member states meet the un target of giving 0.7% in oda. money is desperately needed for the unhcr and other agencies. i appeal to the commission and council to act on this and to encourage member states to take their responsibility both for refugees and for tackling the root causes that have led people to flee.
in writing. paying turkey to handle some refugee facilities has been interpreted by some as a columbus egg that will solve the problems of the floods of refugees and immigrants flooding europe in one fell swoop. but how can we be sure that it is beneficial for the eu? it may be reasonable to give turkey financial help to improve its ability to deal with refugees and migrants. but it makes no sense to me that turkey should be offered a better access to europe in return for helping people with a religion, a culture and a foundation of dignity similar to their own. we must not give in to turkish blackmail and demand more dynamism in the accession negotiations, because turkey will never join the eu. turkey has a population of some 80 million people who would otherwise have free access to europe. so free access for people with precisely different religions, cultures and values. the eu-turkey agreement will therefore only create more problems and solve none.
i have to say, madam president, to the commissioner: this is, as i have said many times, a scandal! and it's not true that there's so much disagreement about the scientific evidence. we have a very, very thorough study in denmark, which has been published all over europe, which shows that the impact on the brain of children, on the brain of the unborn child, is quite dramatic, and also shows that there are serious consequences for the fertility of boys/men. what may be unclear is how much the industry will suffer economically if it does not get its act together and find alternatives and phases out. it is not our job to help the industry in this way other than by setting out clear requirements. most industries can then figure out how to phase out and find viable alternatives. we have also suggested that there may be exceptions, something to be kept out of. it is completely irrelevant to spend so much energy on pleasing an old-fashioned, unimaginative industry instead of taking account of the health of the citizens.
i have to say, madam president, cancer, birth defects, miscarriages, brain damage and all that. the list of harmful effects of endocrine disruptors is long. that is the view of the vast majority of the scientists who sit and work on it. and that is why we must also thank sweden for having the european court of justice clarify that the european commission has failed in this case, and that is unacceptable! i know that this is a complex issue, but that is no excuse for not acting to protect the health of citizens. many people ask me why the eu has not reacted. well, the answer is, i don't know. i think it's embarrassing, you know? and it does not increase citizens' confidence in the eu. let us not drag this out. the more we do this, the more the european commission is responsible for the health problems of its citizens. come on, give me that definition! now, set some lower exposure limits and make a plan of action! not tomorrow, not next year, not in the fall, but now!
mr president, i would like to thank you. some people in this chamber would like to talk about more or less europe, as if you could roll europe out on a line and then follow it with a thumbtack once a year to see whether there was a little more or a little less europe. it's obviously some kind of bullshit. we therefore need neither more nor less europe, we need a better europe, a more focused and efficient europe, a europe based on our citizens and on common problems. i would therefore like to commend donald tusk for his catalogue of amendments which was tabled yesterday. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. it provides a clear and distinct division of labour which will ensure that the eu is indeed big on big things and small on small things. there must also be justice and fairness in access to social services and systems, and it must be a firm principle that the country where you live/work and pay taxes is also the country where you are to be cared for, and therefore, of course, equal treatment of eu citizens must be guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ i welcome and support the commission's proposal, as it is necessary to incorporate the instruments necessary for the application of the temporary safeguard measures in the event of an increase in imports causing economic damage to the eu market and its producers.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission's proposal as it concerns the incorporation into eu law of the relevant parts of the negotiated text of the agreement and sets out procedures to ensure its effective application in order to prevent any negative impact on the eu market.
in writing. ‒ i support this decision as it is important to protect disabled people in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the draft commission implementing decision is not in conformity with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council, which, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council, is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i ask the commission to submit a new legislative proposal based on the treaty on the functioning of the european union amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and taking into account the frequently expressed national concerns, which do not only concern issues related to the safety of gmos for health or the environment.
in writing. ‒ i ask the commission to submit a new legislative proposal based on the treaty on the functioning of the european union amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 taking into account the frequently expressed national concerns, which do not only concern issues related to the safety aspects of gmos in relation to health or the environment.
i have to say, madam president, i have today voted no to blocking the new rules on emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles agreed by the commission and the member states. i think it is important that we introduce as soon as possible that car emissions are to be tested on the road and not in laboratories. after all, it is to drive on the roads that consumers buy a car. if we had blocked today the new rules which the commission and the member states have already agreed, we would have been in a legal vacuum for several years without knowing when we would get the test on the road. it had been unsatisfying, and it had actually been like driving a car with a bag over your head. it is important for me to stress that the new rules are not a free pass for the car industry to pollute. i would have liked to see stricter rules, but that is the result that could be agreed in the council and the commission. it is clear that new testing methods require adaptation in industry, but here in the european parliament we must maintain an ambitious line to limit emissions. we must use all the tools at our disposal. i have noted that the commission has committed itself to an annual review of the limit values and has already set out to lower the limit values in 2017.
in writing. ‒ the volkswagen scandal has revealed an urgent need for better control of the car industry and, not least, for controls to be effectively carried out. there are calls from various quarters for a veto. this is done in the context of the raising of the nox emission limit values. however, we are in a complex political situation. on the one hand, i can follow the protests of the other groups to some extent, but on the other hand, i also believe that we are at the same time in a situation where action is needed. many of today's diesel cars already emit far more than they are allowed to. the limit values are already being breached. therefore, the early introduction of the new tests means that we will be able to reduce emissions considerably. delaying and postponing the introduction will mean that the environment and human health will continue to suffer. it is a question of real policy, where we must find common ground with the commission and the council. the introduction of the tests in the present proposed form should not be considered as a service to the automotive industry, as critics interpret it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i consider that the draft commission implementing decision constitutes an excess of the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 715/2007.
in writing. the tisa negotiations are designed to ensure a greater degree of reciprocity in market access, create a global level playing field, secure tangible benefits for consumers and provide stakeholders with access to the talks with a view to facilitating future multilateralisation. however, public and cultural services, fundamental rights to data protection and fair working conditions, and the right to regulate are not in dispute and should be unequivocally excluded from the scope of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i think this is important, as equality in the eu is still an important fight to be fought.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that serbia has prepared for the real opening of accession negotiations with the completion of the screening process and the preparation and presentation of the comprehensive action plan for chapters 23 (justice and fundamental rights) and 24 (justice, freedom and security).
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission's adoption of a package to support reforms and regional cooperation in the western balkans - a package that reflects the eu's commitment to support the political and economic reform process of the western balkan countries on their path towards eu membership.
in writing. ‒ i support the libyan political agreement and the un-led discussions and call on all parties to work together for the sake of national unity, stability and inclusiveness.
in writing. ‒ i recognise, in line with the eurostat definition, the difference between islands in general and islands with a national capital, and the importance of supporting efforts to reverse the depopulation trend in island areas. i would remind you that certain disadvantages, including those linked to their limited size and distance from the european mainland, are more difficult to deal with for islands than for island states.
in writing. ‒ i would like to emphasise the important role that local and regional authorities play in shaping and implementing eu strategies, and i recognise the role played by a wide range of stakeholders from member states to local community groups.
in writing. ‒ i support the efforts of the un special envoy, ismail ould cheikh ahmed, to find a lasting and peaceful solution to the current crisis.
in writing. ‒ i condemn the numerous and serious violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law committed by all parties involved in the ongoing conflicts in iraq and syria.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur from the committee on employment and social affairs, ms ribeiro, for a very good and a very constructive process and work on this report. i understand that finding compromises in this matter is not easy, and i understand that many concerns have been taken into consideration. i also have to say, however, that in my opinion the employment committee’s position on the annual growth survey could have a more forward-looking approach, recognising the achievements made and pointing to reforms needed in the european labour market to size up the full potential and contribute to strengthening the growth that is now slowly returning to europe. the economic situation is improving. unemployment continued to fall in december 2015 by 0.1% compared to november 2015. unemployment is still too high, standing at 10.4%, but the situation is, however, improving. the number and proportion of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion stabilised in 2013 and 2014. we should not neglect the fact that the social situation is still severe for many and that more efforts need to be made to create growth and new jobs and thereby a way out of poverty and social exclusion, but we should… (the president cut off the speaker)
i have to say, madam president, there is something paradoxical about having this debate only a few hours after we discussed the agreement which david cameron has concluded in the european council, precisely because that agreement separates the eurozone from non-eurozone countries. that is a fact which is not reflected at all in this report. it is possible to say that this report is already old-fashioned, now that we are discussing it in this house. it does not reflect the new reality we have in the eu, namely that the countries that are in the eurozone must of course have more sovereignty deposited in the community in brussels, more central control to let this currency survive, while we, who are fortunately outside, must not be part of that centralisation. this is a very important premise, especially when we look at the way the world economy has developed in recent years, when it is not particularly striking what is happening in the euro zone. i remember the debate over the last 15 years about whether the euro should be the savior of the eu economy. so far, in fact, the opposite has happened. and nothing in the european semester is going to change that. (the speaker agreed to answer a blue card question under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue card answer. i do not see britain "sacrificing social rights", as it was translated to me. on the contrary, i believe that the uk, with the agreement that has been reached, is actually securing the support of a community which i believe both you and my country have a common interest in surviving. because if we do not ensure fairness in, for example, access to social benefits, public support for the work of the eu will not increase, no, it will fall further. there may be some people here who think it can't go any lower, but it can. i can assure you all of that. what david cameron is doing is the greatest gift to european cooperation, because if you do not listen to the criticism in member states like mine, or in the united kingdom, support will fall further and further. this means that even the units and areas that we agree are good - the free movement, the ability to grow together - will disappear. i think that is a very good point.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i would like to thank the president-in-office. first of all, i would like to thank mr ruiz for a good report and good cooperation. and of course, most of all, thank you, emily, for living up to what we fought for when we were going to have you elected. we need to make it clear that these institutions must have a real ombudsman and not a party-political 'sniffing-in-the-buttocks' boy. we have, and i think we're getting there now. we can also feel that all the institutions, including this parliament, are now adjusting themselves to this. i'm not going to repeat what everyone else has said. i can agree with all of this and welcome what you have done for frontex and what it has meant that we have gotten some openness - or some openness, let us say - about ttip. i particularly want to emphasize the work you continue to do, to bring good administration into everything. good administration is about serving the people well, putting them at the centre. that's the service principle! they want quick answers, they want clear answers, proper explanations. but they also need to be safe with our system. i would like to stress in particular that we have not yet succeeded in making it clear that there must be no problems of ability, that is to say, no conflicts of interest. it is still the case in many of our institutions that they think that if you have a 'declaration of conflicts of interest' everything is fine. then we should be interested in whether they are good people, whether they pay their taxes on time, whether they are faithful to their spouses, and what do i know! none of our business! it's none of our business! we have to make sure there's not the slightest shadow of a conflict of interest. so we are going to have to look particularly hard at the ema, which i have the feeling has gone completely wrong again. now there are just two words i want to bring up here: the aarhus convention, it is not properly implemented here in the eu because we do not have access to justice. on the other hand, it is not properly respected in the member states either. although it is up to the ombudsman of the member states to ensure this, i am glad that you are also doing something about it. the very last sentence: you are the only ombudsman who has the right to investigate this parliament, your own parliament. that means you have a duty to do the same, and you can do more of that!
i have to say, madam president, my fellow members! it is a good initiative because there are far too many young people who are not getting a good, healthy and nutritious diet, but are choosing unhealthy foods. it is therefore also important that the eu should try to promote healthy diets with a high content of fruit, vegetables and milk as much as possible. in particular, there are indications that the consumption of dairy products and fruit and vegetables is declining. at the same time, food producers throughout europe are facing major economic problems and the scheme therefore also provides an opportunity for additional outlets to the crowded industry. all good intentions must, of course, be in keeping with the budget and the right of the country to decide for itself whether it will participate in such a scheme. but the danish people's party also wants young people to be given knowledge of how to treat animals, i.e. animal welfare, because good food also requires good animal welfare. just think of the long haul of animals, which should of course be avoided.
in writing. ‒ a healthy and balanced diet is the foundation of good health, but unfortunately the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk is falling across the eu. i believe that it is a national duty to ensure that school meals and school fruit are provided. but i am voting in favour of the proposal because the budget line can be a contribution to some of the most disadvantaged member states and thus to some of the most disadvantaged citizens in the european union. but the eu cannot and should not take over the social responsibilities of the member states.
in writing. ‒ it is important that europe's ports operate optimally and attract investment. modernising port services and operations can ensure this. at the same time, the law weakly counteracts competitive pressures and market abuse, and this is important for the efficiency of port services. it is important, however, to ensure that the liberalisation does not affect the rights and opportunities of workers. the proposal contains several elements designed to counteract negative consequences for workers. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ the legislation improves the quality of consumer price indices (hicps), which is important if macroeconomic imbalances in the eu are to be corrected. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ we in the european parliament have introduced a strategy to achieve equality between men and women in parliament. equality between men is a fundamental right, and that is why i support the agreement.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing a huge humanitarian challenge. hundreds of thousands of refugees have come to europe because of war and persecution in their homeland. we have a responsibility to protect them and to take special care of vulnerable groups such as women and children. today, each country faces the challenge alone. it's not sustainable. a pan-european solution, agreed between the eu's member states, is needed. the practical outcome of this solution, however, must be left to the member states which will be involved. denmark has and will continue to have a clear exception in the area of refugee and asylum policy. we cannot therefore vote for all 28 member states to be responsible for all refugees arriving in the eu, stressing that danish asylum and refugee policy is decided in denmark alone. we will not vote for the creation of safe and legal asylum routes either, as the proposal does not specify the details.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing a huge humanitarian challenge. hundreds of thousands of refugees have come to europe because of war and persecution in their homeland. we have a responsibility to protect them and to take special care of vulnerable groups such as women and children. today, each country faces the challenge alone. it's not sustainable. a pan-european solution, agreed between the eu's member states, is needed. the practical outcome of this solution, however, must be left to the member states which will be involved. denmark has and will continue to have a clear exception in the area of refugee and asylum policy. we cannot therefore vote for all 28 member states to be responsible for all refugees arriving in the eu, stressing that danish asylum and refugee policy is decided in denmark alone. we will not vote for the creation of safe and legal asylum routes either, as the proposal does not specify the details.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing a huge humanitarian challenge. hundreds of thousands of refugees have come to europe because of war and persecution in their homeland. we have a responsibility to protect them and to take special care of vulnerable groups such as women and children. today, each country faces the challenge alone. it's not sustainable. a pan-european solution, agreed between the eu's member states, is needed. the practical outcome of this solution, however, must be left to the member states which will be involved. denmark has and will continue to have a clear exception in the area of refugee and asylum policy. we cannot therefore vote for all 28 member states to be responsible for all refugees arriving in the eu, stressing that danish asylum and refugee policy is decided in denmark alone. we will not vote for the creation of safe and legal asylum routes either, as the proposal does not specify the details.
in writing. - we have to take care of the environment. that's why we need to limit the sulphur content in fuel. only in this way can we reduce the harmful effects of such emissions. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ the poorest developing countries do not have the same amount of resources as the developed countries. that is why we must ensure price segmentation when it comes to medicines. it is important that the poorest countries can buy essential medicines at very low prices. the domestic and developing markets for medicines are very different. this agreement seeks to take account of that. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ it is important that we have more transparency when it comes to tax cooperation between the eu and third countries. the agreement with andorra brings us one step closer to combating tax fraud and tax evasion and, instead, to improving international tax cooperation. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ the agreement aims to create an open and transparent relationship between the three institutions. i hope that this will lead to better legislation, which will benefit all citizens of the union. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ when the agreement with philips morris was concluded, it was due to a regulatory gap. this vacuum was filled by the adoption of the tobacco directive, which will make a real contribution to the fight against smuggled cigarettes. in addition, the agreement with philip morris has so far not resulted in fewer smuggled cigarettes on the european market, only fewer from pm. in other words, there is no need to extend or renew the agreement with pm. that is why i voted against the extension and renewal.
mrs dormand! i would also like to thank the rapporteur for doing a very good job. i fully support the text on veterinary medicines which we are voting on tomorrow and i am pleased that this is the first time that we are seriously addressing antibiotic resistance in eu legislation. it is necessary because some 25 000 people die every year because we have developed resistance and therefore cannot treat infections adequately. this development of resistance has come about partly because we have seen in agriculture an overuse of antibiotics. i am therefore pleased that we are taking a step in the right direction by moving closer to a real ban on prophylactic use. we should not give antibiotics to healthy animals, only to sick animals. i would also have liked to see a real ban on veterinarians selling the medicines they prescribe, but we did not get to that point. maybe we can do that next time. i support the text and hope that this means that we can now seriously tackle the fight against antibiotic resistance in europe.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. i am not sure that this is the case. when the big banks were bailed out during the financial crisis with taxpayers' money, it was because the banks had become too big and too important to fail. it was about the so-called "too big to fail" banks, which would drag the rest of society with them if they went under. a first step towards safeguarding taxpayers against future banking crises is therefore, of course, also to prevent banks from becoming so large that taxpayers are forced to rescue them if they go bankrupt. but the banking union is not going to deal with that! eight years after the financial crisis, the european banking sector has become even larger and even more concentrated, and there is still no legislation that actually addresses 'too big to fail' or that looks to downsize banks. the banks can continue to grow bigger and bigger under the false assurances of the banking union that we will never have another banking crisis. this first annual report on the banking union was a clear opportunity to put 'too big to fail' on the agenda. unfortunately, parliament has not seized this opportunity. the annual report also does not raise any criticism of mario draghi's membership of the g30. it's a special box for the top executives of the banking world. can this parliament really allow draghi to run around in a club with the directors of the very banks he is supposed to supervise? i do not think we can, and that is why we are unfortunately voting against this report, which is completely uncritical and harmless.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is in a difficult economic situation. we need to get this country back on track. the regulation ensures that a certain quantity of olive oil can be imported duty-free from tunisia into the european union in the calendar year 2016-17. it's good for the economy, and that's why i support the deal.
in writing. ‒ we in the european parliament agree that the use of antibiotics in animals should be restricted. our proposal for new veterinary legislation is a good step forward and shows how seriously we take the problem. we are opening up the reservation of certain types of antibiotics for human health, so that they cannot be used in agriculture and for animals in general. europe must also be able to treat simple pneumonia in 20 years' time, and this proposal will help to ensure that. from the danish and nordic point of view, the rules should have gone even further. but this is a step in the right direction. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ it is important that the european parliament is involved as a co-legislator in determining the structure and level of fees to be paid by industry to the ema. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ cooperation with eritrea is crucial if we are to have any hope that eritrea will uphold human rights and fight crime and corruption. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ it is important to support the political developments taking place in macedonia. a cooperation agreement will strengthen political institutions and promote human rights. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ this cooperation agreement with montenegro will support and strengthen the fight against serious crime and will contribute to improving judicial cooperation, in particular in the field of organised crime and terrorism. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ the single banking union is an important tool for safeguarding the financial sector. since the financial crisis, the banking union has contributed to an attempt to restore credibility, to new investment and to a higher level of security for citizens who experienced a bank failure during the crisis. although some of the measures outlined in the report are still to be completed, i support the conclusions of the report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the point is that the who's cancer panel has classified glyphosate as probably carcinogenic and the efsa concludes that glyphosate is unlikely to pose a risk to humans. these are two very different assessments of the substance glyphosate, and i think that is the essence of this case - that we have two very different assessments. in this light, i think it is worrying if we allow the licence for round-up to be extended for another 15 years when there are two very different assessments of the substance. i therefore urge the european commission to put human health before money. we need to get the substance glyphosate thoroughly tested before we grant a licence extension for another 15 years. we can't be any more familiar. it may well be that it may be difficult to find alternatives, but we have to have this investigated. we cannot ignore the concerns of the who.
in writing. coastal fishing is vital for the employment, tourism, attractiveness and retention of the outermost regions. at the same time, coastal fishing accounts for a large proportion of the total fisheries in many european countries. direct employment in coastal fishing is a cornerstone of the economy of many local communities, while secondary employment in the fishing industry, retail trade and a number of other professions is of great importance, particularly for the peripheral areas of coastal fishing countries. tourism benefits from coastal fishing as a cultural factor and is often the cause of tourists' fascination with a given area. fish prepared and processed locally and in a regionally specific way also helps to boost tourism. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. they talk about how much money has been spent, but not about the administration that comes along to get the money, and so they disappear. the crisis in agriculture is serious and has led to large price fluctuations which are totally unreasonable for a profession under pressure. where is the will to create a level playing field between countries where agricultural policy is the focus? some countries have to reduce ammonia by more than 20%, others by about 5%. where's the fairness? where is the dialogue about getting the russian market back? right now, it's the farmers who are paying the price. the big companies get away with it. they go into tax havens in places like panama. to save this we need a future-proof agriculture, where investment is made in the best possible environmental technologies, more jobs and a better economy.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing a huge humanitarian challenge. hundreds of thousands of refugees have come to europe because of war and persecution in their home countries and are entitled to protection in europe today, each country faces the challenge alone. it's not sustainable. a pan-european solution is needed, agreed between the eu member states, in which increased and effective action to secure the eu's external borders is central. there is also a need for a fairer burden-sharing between countries. the practical outcome of this solution, however, must be left to the member states which will be involved. denmark has and will continue to have a clear exception in the area of refugee and asylum policy. we cannot therefore vote for all 28 member states to be responsible for all refugees arriving in the eu, stressing that danish asylum and refugee policy is decided in denmark alone.
madam president, how many papers give a rare insight into how a corrupt global elite keeps millions in offshore tax havens? they cast light on secret structures in panama that could be used for tax dodging, money laundering, corruption and terrorist financing. and remember, this is only the tip of the iceberg. one law firm, mossack fonseca; one country, panama – but there are many others out there. we know that at least 8% of private household assets are hidden away in tax havens and that corporate profits for many of the biggest multinationals on this planet are shifted to tax havens. what we see is billions in tax money escaping european shores while our citizens are struggling with economic and social crisis – billions in tax money that could be used for public services, health, education and jobs. it is a provocation to ordinary citizens who pay their fair taxes and it destroys jobs when sme tax burdens are 30% higher than those of multinational corporations. and fundamentally, these economic criminals and tax evaders are undermining justice and eliminating trust in our societies and economies. therefore we need effective rules about transparency and public country-by-country reporting, as is the case for the financial sector. we need to blacklist tax havens like panama and the uk virgin islands. we need an easy way to identify beneficial ownership by public registration and end the secrecy around all types of entities, including trusts. and we need to end the global tax-dodging industry of tax advisers, banks, accounting firms and law firms like mossack fonseca when repeatedly and systematically engaging in tax dodging.
mr president, i would like to thank you. if there's one thing we can learn from the many revelations about tax havens, it's that tax havens and tax evasion are best kept in the dark. they live best hidden from the public. so we also know that our strongest weapon against tax evasion is openness, and that is publicity about tax relations, and not least ownership. so now we have another tax evasion scandal and another chance to show the citizens that we are actually going to put an end to it. so let us put words behind actions and insist on full publicity about country-by-country reporting and, not least, about who the real owners of companies and foundations are. we must not be limited by the borders of the european union. of course, country-by-country reporting should not only apply within the eu, but to the activities of companies in all countries, so that we have true and disaggregated reports that developing countries can also benefit from. there's no reason to wait for anyone else. let us now take the lead - show the way to full openness for all businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the renewal of the authorisation for glyphosate, but i support a more limited period than the one the commission proposes - 7 years instead of 15 years. i hope that the member states and the commission will take parliament's views into account when they decide on the extension to may. i am aware that the left has been agitating strongly for a total ban on glyphosate, but i believe that we have found a compromise that is good for both agriculture and health and is based on the scientific basis that we have available now. i am pleased that we are also calling for clear restrictions on the use of glyphosate - both for private and professional use. i think in particular that the use of glyphosate in planting should be limited - spraying just before harvest, where there is a high risk of influencing the food chain. we must ensure that the substance is used correctly and that health and safety considerations are taken into account. it is important to state, as we have done today, that the authorization can and should be withdrawn if we have new information on health risks. i expect the commission to assess scientific data on a regular basis and to withdraw the authorization if there is a basis for it.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that a compromise was reached where parliament agreed to extend the approval of glyphosate. the substance is the subject of much scientific debate, but i do not think there is sufficient evidence to suggest that it is harmful to an extent that would warrant a ban. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. however, to impose a ban on such an uncertain basis as that hitherto presented by, among others, iarc would be untenable. glyphosate is a very important tool for our cramped agriculture. i'm glad they don't have another problem to worry about.
in writing. ‒ it is clear to everyone that europe is facing a markedly different security situation now than we did just a few years ago. the need for cooperation and common solutions is growing as the threat to the countries of europe develops. at the same time, we must take account of the defence reservation resulting from the edinburgh agreement. we do this by abstaining from voting either for or against specific proposals for increased coordination of defence policy and military resources within the eu. the eu countries which may wish to have more formalised military cooperation within the eu should of course be able to do so, but denmark cannot take part in this. we want to remove the defence reservation in the long term because we believe that it is in denmark's clear interest to be able to enter into closer cooperation on our common security in europe. but until then, we operate in full compliance with the reservation. for the social democrats there is no doubt that nato is and will remain our main and primary military cooperation body. however, in addition to nato cooperation, we are already cooperating in a number of areas with non-nato countries such as sweden, and we want to continue this. we also support increased cooperation between the eu and nato in the field of defence policy.
in writing. the resolution expresses deep concern about political developments in poland, focusing on constitutional issues such as changes to the constitutional court. but it is deeply regrettable that not a word has been said about the plans for a total ban on abortion. the amendments tabled by my group, gue/ngl, which condemned the restriction of the possibility of abortion and defended the right of women to decide for themselves about their bodies, were unfortunately not adopted. this resolution by parliament would have been much stronger if it had emphasized that oppression of women and contempt for democracy are closely linked. that is why i voted in favour of both the amendments and the resolution as a whole.
i have to say, madam president, i am very pleased to vote yes! tomorrow on our new data protection package. i also think it's about time we had some new rules. the current rules date back to 1995, when the world looked very different. that was before google and facebook and before we could pay with our cell phones and everything else. one of the most important aspects of the new rules is that citizens will have more control over their own data: we will have better consent rules, we will have the right to be forgotten and we will also be informed if our data is hacked. in addition, it is also very important that companies become much more responsible for protecting citizens'/customers' data. i am particularly pleased, however, that we have managed to find a solution to ensure that research based on registers can continue. we have a very good and long tradition of register-based research in the nordic countries, and we have thereby acquired very good and useful knowledge about, for example, cardiovascular diseases and cancer. and research is important! i am therefore very pleased that our negotiators, albrecht and lauristin and others, have made it possible to continue the research based on registers. i think we should congratulate the citizens of europe very much on the fact that we are getting these new rules, and then we should thank everyone who has been involved in this. this is big, important legislation we're passing tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the fight against terrorism and organised crime is important but also difficult. the terrorists are constantly finding new ways and methods of operating, and this requires that we, who want the good of society, have many different tools to combat this. i believe that the european pnr is one of the many tools we can and must use in the fight against terrorism. that is why i support the adoption of the european pnr. it will enable us to exchange information more effectively and to establish the necessary cooperation at european level. so, what, we're gonna have a perfect system? no, of course it's not that. that is why i also think it is quite right to link the vote on a european pnr to the adoption of our data protection package. it is absolutely essential that we ensure proper protection of people's data, for example very limited retention of data. but there is also a need to strike a balance between the protection of privacy on the one hand and the protection of us from terrorism and organised crime on the other. i think we should be pragmatic. of course, we should not let people believe that a european pnr stops terrorism, but i think it is important that we give ourselves the opportunity to have another tool to fight terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament cannot and should not be exempted from the general savings requirements currently applicable throughout europe. as in previous years, staffing and administrative costs are being cut across a wide area of the european parliament. we support this approach and insist that the eu budget should not increase. however, in the wake of the series of terrorist attacks we have seen in europe, it is clear that there is a need for a substantial upgrade in the security measures around institutions such as the european parliament. that is why we support the budgetary increases related to increased security. we also point out that these increased security measures were adopted with broad political support in the bureau of the european parliament. we maintain our demand for the development of more transparent rules for the audit of parliament's expenditure, including the funds made available to members, and we stress that uniform, clear and effective rules should apply to this. we do not want to complicate or cost the system further by encouraging the emergence of different audit systems. finally, we emphasize that both members and staff should always travel in the cheapest way possible. for meps, these are typically the cheapest flex tickets, due to changing meeting schedules.
in writing. ‒ all households in europe should have access to heat and energy all year round. we social democrats agree with that. however, how households' access to heat and energy is financed is a national matter, as the formulation of social policy in general is a competence of the member states under the treaty. the european parliament should therefore not be deciding whether private households themselves or the public sector are responsible for the costs of heating and energy. we have therefore failed to vote for or against the idea that the costs of energy during the winter are the responsibility of the public and that the commission should reduce energy costs for poor households. it is for the member states to decide.
in writing. ‒ all households in europe should have access to heat and energy all year round. we social democrats agree with that. however, how households' access to heat and energy is financed is a national matter, as the formulation of social policy in general is a competence of the member states under the treaty. the european parliament should therefore not be deciding whether private households themselves or the public sector are responsible for the costs of heating and energy. we have therefore failed to vote for or against the idea that the costs of energy during the winter are the responsibility of the public and that the commission should reduce energy costs for poor households. it is for the member states to decide.
in writing. ‒ all households in europe should have access to heat and energy all year round. we social democrats agree with that. however, how households' access to heat and energy is financed is a national matter, as the formulation of social policy in general is a competence of the member states under the treaty. the european parliament should therefore not be deciding whether private households themselves or the public sector are responsible for the costs of heating and energy. we have therefore failed to vote for or against the idea that the costs of energy during the winter are the responsibility of the public and that the commission should reduce energy costs for poor households. it is for the member states to decide.
the commission is not i would like to thank the president-in-office. as rapporteur for two of the reports we are considering today, i shall briefly review them before moving on to my shadow rapporteurships. the first concerns the court of justice of the european union, which has done very well in the audit procedure. however, there have been subsequent media reports and criticism of the belgian member of the court of first instance's criticism of the procedure and the reluctance to appoint more judges to the court. at the same time, it has been a challenge for the committee on budgetary control to gain access to the side activities of judges at the court of justice in addition to their work. in view of these two things, the ecr group is very hesitant to grant discharge to the court of justice, as we consider the uncertainties raised to be quite serious. as regards the european economic and social committee, of which i have also been rapporteur, i would like to commend the committee for having followed in a number of areas the recommendations made by the european parliament in previous years. they've been able to cut back. it has been possible to reach an agreement with the parliament and the committee of the regions, which has meant better and more efficient business operations. i would therefore recommend that discharge be given, although i think that the committee should in general focus more on teleconferencing and videoconferencing and that travel costs are high and should be cut in the future. as regards the reports on discharge to the commission and its agencies and to the european parliament, i would like to thank my colleagues and the shadow rapporteurs and rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation. overall, we in the ecr group think that the problem is that the error rate is still too high. we believe that there is too little focus on efficiency and added value of the money spent at european level and we believe that fundamental reforms are needed in the two major spending lines, namely agricultural aid and regional development aid. we think that our work has produced a good, critical and constructive report in relation to the european commission's accounts. a report which goes far beyond what the ecr wants. but because it contains support for both the european public prosecutor's office and the desire for greater own resources than are already available, we in the ecr group are forced to vote in favour of the report. in view of the high error rates, we are voting against the discharge of the european commission and its agencies, as is the tradition. we think that a line which is a little more critical could have been included in the european parliament's own accounts. we recognize that in a number of areas good and constructive action has been taken, and we particularly recognize the behaviour of christian schulz, but we think that there is a need to reject the proposal for a more expensive chauffeur service. we think that there is a need to revise our general budgetary allocation and we think that there is a need to move away from the idea of supporting the house of european history. that is why we are voting against both reports on discharge. in relation to the joint undertakings, we will vote against on the basis that there is too high an error rate in the general eu budget.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues for some very good reports. i have to admit, though, it does feel a little hopeless. exactly one year ago we were also here discussing the eu accounts, as we have done in previous years. every year we point to the absurdity of the council choosing not to answer our questions. it's absurd on a level that's almost indescribable. it is an insult - not only to us in this parliament, but especially to the people - that you close the doors and refuse to let us look into things. we in the european parliament would like to act as the watchdog of the citizens. today we have heard the council call on the commission to be open and transparent, but without a word in reply to the criticism directed at it. this year will be the eighth consecutive year that we refuse to approve the council's accounts. yet nothing is happening. this shows a total lack of respect for the citizens! the commission's praise must be met by the fact that there is a real willingness to engage in dialogue. i want you to thank me for that, even though there are problems here, too. it must be said that the error rate - that is, the number of errors that occur in the disbursement of money - is still too high. i know that the commission says that you want to do something, but i must say that it often seems that you are trying to shift the responsibility from yourselves to others. it is frustrating to see taxpayers' money still being spent at such a high rate of error. we owe it to the people to get this right. it's their money, after all.
the commission is not madam president, it has been a long debate, but i think it has brought us forward. i would like to thank both the shadow rapporteurs who have helped me to get through my reports, but also the rapporteurs who have allowed me to be a shadow rapporteur. i think that most of the discharge reports are fairly objective and they go to the steel where it is required that we as parliament exercise very strict control over how taxpayers' money is spent. i think it is commendable that there have been no taboo subjects, that most of the necessary closures have been made. the only place where i really think we could have gone a little harder was in relation to ourselves - in relation to parliament. i always think it is commendable that you set the same high standards for yourself as you do for others, and i think we still have a long way to go in that regard. i would also like to thank the commission and the court of auditors for the great work which underlies our reports. i look forward to the vote tomorrow and hope that we can stick to the line laid down by the committee.
for the ecr group. i am not sure that this is the case. people meet in europe, and when people meet, they often fall in love, they often have children, and it's all beautiful and wonderful. but it is also a fact that in many cases happiness does not last forever. they decide to leave each other again and share the children, and in the process, there is often a little more friction in the machine. if the parents are also from different countries, the solutions to the problems often become much more complex. unfortunately, in the committee on civil liberties we see all too often cases where the courts of individual member states disagree on the assessment of these cases, and there is evidence that the courts of individual member states in many cases are looking after the interests of their own citizens. here the children are held hostage in an open tug-of-war between the interests of two countries. this proposal is not about forcing countries to do anything. it is an attempt to make some proper agreements between countries which can ensure that children of parents of different nationalities are treated fairly, and this must be in everyone's interest.
in writing. ‒ the danish social democrats in the european parliament have been working actively for years to revise the reimbursement of general expenses in order to strengthen control and fairness in relation to the coverage of members' general expenses, etc., which we have also supported on several occasions. it is absolutely essential for us that such a revision actually strengthens control and fairness and is not merely a populist measure. we therefore hope that the bureau of the european parliament will soon undertake a review. the social democrats have a firm policy of not allowing political double mandates, which of course also applies to meps. however, we understand that some members may, for example, teach to a modest extent or so on, as long as there is transparency. the interests of members must be made absolutely clear and public. we regret that the house of european history is still facing difficulties and increasing costs. we do not think it is the european parliament's job to set up such a house and that the money could probably have been better spent, but since the decision on investment has already been taken, we do not think that criticism of the house itself should continue. of course, the project must adhere to the budget and follow the rules.
in writing. ‒ digitalisation brings both opportunities and challenges for many different groups in society, including women. the danish social democrats in the european parliament believe that investment in education and training should be made to ensure that as many people as possible are able to take advantage of the opportunities and tackle the challenges presented by digitalisation. we can therefore support the overall message of the report on strengthening equality in the digital age. the eu institutions must of course respect their mutual agreement on the appropriate integration of gender as well as other relevant aspects in the annual budgetary procedures. we also support that. however, we do not believe that legislation should be introduced in the eu on the exact distribution of men and women on company boards.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, by the end of this year we will have laid down the tracks for the european energy union. these are exciting and ambitious times as the energy union is one of the biggest and most important projects in the history of the european union. we have to deliver. why is it that we are creating this energy union? to create a well—functioning energy market, to attract capital, to create growth and jobs, to push the sustainable transition agenda much further – and, not least, to be less dependent on russian gas and supplies from mr putin. this leads me to the obvious question: where does nord stream 2 fit into this context? to me the simple answer is that it does not fit at all. i am fully aware of the fact that we will be dependent, to some degree, on russian gas in years to come, but bear in mind that nord stream 1 is operating at around only half of its capacity today. therefore i find it very hard to identify any economic, environmental or political arguments for nord stream 2. i find it very hard to see any positive perspectives for anyone other than mr putin in this. so far, i do not think that either we, the european parliament, or the member states have taken nord stream 2 and the perspectives of this project seriously enough. more than anything, we need to conduct a firm geopolitical study on north stream 2 and the implications of the project. we need the commission to step up its efforts, ensuring that nord stream 2 complies with all our laws and intentions. if not, we risk putting the entire energy union in jeopardy, and that would be a total disaster.
mr president, nord stream 2 is both unnecessary, unwanted and dangerous: unnecessary because current capacity is nowhere near fully utilised; unwanted because we know that our central and eastern european member states are worried about this plan for good reason; dangerous even, because it will only strengthen mr putin’s energy hold on europe. nord stream 2 will bypass the baltic states and allow russia to completely deny ukraine vital gas deliveries. the energy union should strengthen europe, strengthen renewables, strengthen european cooperation on energy and lead us forward in a carbon-free future. nord stream 2 is the exact opposite of all of this. it divides europe into two: those who will have and those who will not have access to russian gas. i say that europe in its entirety should say ‘no’ to becoming even more dependent on russian gas and that is why the commission must state clearly to russia, to germany, to denmark and to all others that nord stream 2 is an unwanted, unneeded and unsafe project that belongs not at the bottom of the baltic sea but at the bottom of a wastepaper basket, clearly stamped ‘rejected’.
mr president, i would like to thank you. europe must become less dependent on gas from putin's russia. unfortunately, the so-called nord stream 2 project is heading in the opposite direction. the project is bad for europe, and i agree with my colleague mr buzek who said in his speech that it should not be subsidised by the european union under any circumstances. is the project even in line with the goal of the energy union? i doubt that very much. we should also look at the so-called iga agreements, as will be done at the council meeting on 6 june. this project on nord stream, how does it relate to the iga agreements? we have to become less dependent on outside energy. it is also a question of security of supply for me, but it is also a question of security policy. we must give more weight to other sources of energy, such as solar and wind, while at the same time using the energy we have in europe more efficiently. energy efficiency and renewable energy are better than putting money in putin's coffers.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: israeli bulldozers have demolished buildings, tents, wells, schools, playgrounds, latrines, electricity supply, and often a european union flag is raised from the rubble. hundreds of palestinian homes and infrastructure in the occupied west bank have been destroyed in recent months, on an unprecedented scale, but with total impunity. and worse, the forcibly displaced palestinians are being replaced by israeli settlers. mrs mogherini, the eu's response to these systematic violations of international law and direct attacks on eu-funded projects is virtually nonexistent, just words, as you heard just now. the so-called 'structured dialogue' is a farce which only serves to hide the lack of political will on the part of the eu to do anything about the core of the problem, the occupation and the growth of settlements. mrs mogherini, it is high time that the eu's support, both political and economic, for israel's occupation of palestine was stopped. i must ask you now, at last, as others have said, to publish the whole truth about the destruction of eu projects and to demand compensation, possibly by cutting the corresponding amount of the eu's large support for israel's participation in horizon 2020. finally, i would urge parliament to send a fact-finding mission to the west bank immediately to assess the situation on the ground.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. let me begin by thanking mr díaz de mera, the other rapporteurs and the european institutions for their hard work. it has been a long process and i am convinced that from next year europol will be much better equipped to support member states in the fight against serious crossborder crime and terrorism. as rapporteur for alde, i would have liked to see europol strengthened even more so that it could ask the member states to launch investigations and at least give reasons for refusing to do so. i would also have liked to see information sharing between member states made compulsory to avoid some member states having knowledge that other member states could use. it is being done on a voluntary basis at the moment, and that is not enough. the transnational nature of the paris and brussels attacks underlines the crucial importance of information exchange and police cooperation in countering the terrorist threat. unfortunately, there are far too many examples of the exact opposite. let me mention one: the terrorists of the paris attacks in november travelled by car from belgium to france, were stopped at the border, but were released again because the french authorities did not have access to photo identification. unfortunately, there are several examples of both lack of information and lack of coordination. it is therefore crucial that we improve the way we share information between member states going forward. it is the prerequisite for preventing further tragic events. i would say to the member states: 'do not wait for the next tragedy to happen before you step up your joint action with europol!' i say 'your' and i say it with envy because denmark, my home country, is about to leave europol because the people voted against europol in a referendum last year. the coming months will show whether it is possible to negotiate an agreement on europol in place in time. i hope, of course, that denmark will become a full member of europol. but in my book, incomplete parallel agreements are not the optimal solution, either for denmark or for europe. i wish everyone the best of luck with the new, stronger europol. it is a key instrument in the fight against organised crime and terrorism.
i have to say, madam president, good people! the reform of europol will move from equal intergovernmental police cooperation to the creation of a supranational police authority. it is then spiced up by the fact that their area is being extended so that in future they will have to cover all areas where the eu has a policy, which is to say effectively almost all areas. when we combine this with the increased powers to juggle information about citizens, i find it quite strange that this parliament forgets to defend the legal security of citizens. it is unacceptable that europol should cooperate with private companies such as facebook to collect information about citizens, without the necessary democratic control of why the information is collected and what happens to it. we must insist that police cooperation is important and good. it is essential that we have good and well-functioning police cooperation, but with this reform, the price is simply too high.
i have to say, madam president, the new europe agreement will enable europe to step up its efforts to combat organised crime, terrorism and cybercrime. we can now react more quickly in a world that is getting smaller and smaller. today we are giving europol a stronger mandate to be better equipped to fight crossborder crime and terrorism. and that is what is needed! we are now able to focus our investigations on organised crime and we are setting up special units that can respond immediately to terrorism and crime. i've spent 25 years of my working life in law enforcement and i've seen how international crime has evolved over the years. we need to develop and provide better tools for the police. i am not sure whether this is due to ignorance or to the kind of stories mrs hohlmeier mentioned in her speech. i cannot say what the reason is, but i would like to congratulate you on a good agreement.
in writing. ‒ we danish social democrats have not voted for this directive. on the one hand, the directive is subject to the danish reservation of rights, and on the other hand we do not agree on the whole content. there are some challenges to the way denmark has set up its welfare state.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank the rapporteur and also especially our commissioner for putting this very important debate we have today into perspective. what we are discussing is actually a standard that should have been established long ago with regard to the obligation of multinational companies to provide information to our tax authorities so that we can ensure that they pay the tax they are due. sometimes, when there is such a debate, i think many citizens think that it is actually quite absurd that we live in a global world where these standards are not yet applicable. so i think the eu has a huge role to play in leading the way in implementing these things also at the global level, in the oecd, in the g20 and in other contexts, and in fighting for the standards we develop here in europe to become global standards as well. we know that in europe alone, if one takes into account both the tax evasion of companies and the tax evasion of individuals, a thousand billion euros are lost each year through fraud and tax evasion. money that could have gone to welfare, money that could have gone to create new jobs. we know that smes, which create 85% of all jobs in europe, have a tax burden 30% higher than that of large multinationals. that is why the evasion and tax evasion of large companies is destroying jobs in europe. i think transparency, effective cooperation and common standards are the three things that are needed, and i would like to say that this proposal is very good. i would have liked to have had the same limit as for banks in terms of the amount of when to report, namely eur 40 million.
in writing. ‒ victims of trafficking in human beings must be assisted and protected in the best possible way. there can be no doubt about that. when we fail to vote on how to ensure this in practice, it is because the area is covered by the reservation of rights. therefore, the precise measures for the protection and legal aid of victims of trafficking in human beings in denmark cannot be defined by eu law, but only by danish law.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the european commission to set up a task force to monitor virtual currencies so that they cannot be used for money laundering or terrorist financing. it is important that we follow developments so that we can intervene with legislation if virtual currencies are being misused.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in france, 2,132 truck drivers lost their jobs because of the prolonged global financial and economic crisis. i believe that it is important to support workers who are affected by the negative effects of globalisation, which is also the purpose of the fund. that is why i support the motion.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in greece, 557 employees lost their jobs when a supermarket went bankrupt as a result of the financial crisis. it is important to support workers who are affected by the negative effects of globalisation, which is also the purpose of the fund. that is why i support the motion.
in writing. ‒ to be a member of the eu, you must have a rule of law. we must therefore rely on the rule of law to determine when a member of the european parliament has violated national law and must have his immunity waived. that is why i support the repeal.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing a huge humanitarian challenge with the current refugee crisis. common european solutions are part of the solution to the crisis. the so-called 'temporary redistribution' system is one of the practical european solutions currently in place. the scheme means that italy and greece will have to take the burden off some 160,000 refugees. the refugees are distributed among the other member states according to a quota system. sweden is one of the countries that will receive more refugees. however, sweden is also among the countries that have already taken in the highest number of refugees per capita. we therefore understand that sweden is suspended from the temporary redistribution for one year. the member states must be able to follow. denmark has and will continue to have a clear exception in the area of refugee and asylum policy. the danish exception is also clearly stated in the adopted text. that is why we support the report. at the same time, our support shows that we will not stand in the way of the other member states' wishes for common european solutions to concrete problems. we also note with satisfaction that the other member states - with the explicit reference to the danish exception - fully respect denmark's position.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing a huge humanitarian challenge with the current refugee crisis. common european solutions are part of the solution to the crisis. the so-called 'temporary redistribution system' is one of the practical european solutions currently in existence. the scheme means that italy and greece will have to take the burden off some 160,000 refugees. the refugees are distributed among the other member states according to a quota system. sweden is one of the countries that will receive more refugees. however, sweden is also among the countries that have already taken in the highest number of refugees per capita. we therefore understand that sweden is suspended from the temporary redistribution for one year. the member states must be able to follow. denmark has and will continue to have a clear exception in the area of refugee and asylum policy. the danish exception is also clearly stated in the adopted text. that is why we support the report. at the same time, our support shows that we will not stand in the way of the other member states' wishes for common european solutions to concrete problems. we also note with satisfaction that the other member states - with the explicit reference to the danish exception - fully respect denmark's position.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing a huge humanitarian challenge with the current refugee crisis. common european solutions are part of the solution to the crisis. the so-called 'temporary redistribution' system is one of the practical european solutions currently in place. the scheme means that italy and greece will have to take the burden off some 160,000 refugees. the refugees are distributed among the other member states according to a compulsory quota. sweden is one of the countries that will receive more refugees. however, sweden is also among the countries that have already taken in the highest number of refugees per capita. we therefore understand that sweden is suspended from the temporary redistribution for one year. the member states must be able to follow. denmark has and will continue to have a clear exception in the area of refugee and asylum policy. that is the way it is today and that is the way it will be in the future. the danish exception is also clearly stated in the text adopted. since i do not want the eu to decide on the refugee policy in denmark and since i fundamentally disagree with a forced quota solution, i have chosen to abstain. i could have voted against, but i do not want to deter other countries from doing what they think is right.
in writing. ‒ with privacy shield, we achieve significant improvements to the privacy shield compared to our previous safe harbour protection system. in this way we ensure that we can transfer data to the united states, even though we have different data protection standards. the privacy shield thus guarantees the protection of european data in the united states, which is important for consumers.
in writing. ‒ currently, 50 million eu citizens are living in energy poverty. many citizens are stuck on outdated energy contracts, which often require high termination fees if switching to a cheaper provider. i believe that energy companies should provide consumers with information on the cheapest rates and drop expensive charges for switching suppliers. that is why i support the motion.
in writing. ‒ the social democrats in denmark have always fought against poverty and for creating equal opportunities for all, regardless of background. the fight against poverty is best tackled by ensuring economic growth and quality jobs and by creating a social safety net to care for those who cannot work. the eu has a shared responsibility for getting europe growing again. however, it is not the competence of the union to determine the specific structure of social or tax policy. it is up to each member state to decide how the national welfare system is to be set up and financed. we can only call on the member states to take an active part in the fight against poverty and for equality.
in writing. ‒ the social democrats in denmark have always fought against poverty and for creating equal opportunities for all, regardless of background. the fight against poverty is best tackled by ensuring economic growth and quality jobs and by creating a social safety net to care for those who cannot work. the eu has a shared responsibility for getting europe growing again. however, it is not the competence of the union to determine the specific structure of social or tax policy. it is up to each member state to decide how the national welfare system is to be set up and financed. we can only call on the member states to take an active part in the fight against poverty and for equality. that is why i have not voted on the report as a whole, which sets out a number of eu measures which, in my view, cross the line of what is and should be the competence of the eu and the member states respectively.
in writing. ‒ the social democrats in denmark have always fought against poverty and for creating equal opportunities for all, regardless of background. the fight against poverty is best tackled by ensuring economic growth and quality jobs and by creating a social safety net to care for those who cannot work. the eu has a shared responsibility for getting europe growing again. however, it is not the competence of the union to determine the specific structure of social or tax policy. it is up to each member state to decide how the national welfare system is to be set up and financed. we can only call on the member states to take an active part in the fight against poverty and for equality.
in writing. ‒ despite the fact that we removed the customs barrier in the eu back in 1968, we still see trade in goods and services hampered by non-customs barriers such as unnecessary bureaucracy or unjustified national technical requirements for products and/or delivery. if we want to strengthen the internal market, we must remove these barriers. it is essential, however, that we have a clear definition of what non-tariff barriers cover, so that they do not include, for example, labour rights, environmental protection and consumer rights. it does, however, take account of why i support the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the danish social democrats want a well-functioning and fair internal market, where workers and businesses compete on equal terms and where consumers are properly protected. that is why we support the report, which in many respects supports these principles. however, the support for the report is not unlimited support for the specific proposals in the report, but for the proper functioning of the internal market. we will take a position on proposals such as the sharing economy, service passports and vat simplification when the concrete proposals are there and we can see the precise content. for example, simplification of vat may be a good idea, but it should not lead to member states being unable to charge the desired rate. overall, it is good to focus more on how the internal market works. it is important, however, that we consider not only how the market works for businesses but also for consumers, workers and citizens.
in writing. ‒ the danish social democrats want a well-functioning and fair internal market, where workers and businesses compete on equal terms and where consumers are properly protected. that is why we support the report, which in many respects supports these principles. however, the support for the report is not unlimited support for the specific proposals in the report, but for the proper functioning of the internal market. we will take a position on proposals such as the sharing economy, service passports and vat simplification when the concrete proposals are there and we can see the precise content. for example, simplification of vat may be a good idea, but it should not lead to member states being unable to charge the desired rate. overall, it is good to focus more on how the internal market works. it is important, however, that we consider not only how the market works for businesses but also for consumers, workers and citizens.
in writing. ‒ the danish social democrats want a well-functioning and fair internal market, where workers and businesses compete on equal terms and where consumers are properly protected. that is why we support the report, which in many respects supports these principles. however, the support for the report is not unlimited support for the specific proposals in the report, but for the proper functioning of the internal market. we will take a position on proposals such as the sharing economy, service passports and vat simplification when the concrete proposals are there and we can see the precise content. for example, simplification of vat may be a good idea, but it should not lead to member states being unable to charge the desired rate. overall, it is good to focus more on how the internal market works. it is important, however, that we consider not only how the market works for businesses but also for consumers, workers and citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have a minute and 30 seconds to speak, and as i speak, three people are dying of aids. globally, one person dies every 30 seconds. there are 40 million people infected worldwide, and two million more are being added each year. fortunately, the good news is that we are in agreement with the world that we must have done something about this. we have to have eliminated the aids epidemic by the time we reach 2030, and we also know from the 2015 millennium development goals that it is worthwhile to make these goals, because then we act accordingly. but it is still alarming when we read the un report on the subject. the un says that if we continue to act and act and do the actions that we are doing at this point, we are actually going to see even more infected. in other words, much, much more action is needed! there are many things that are needed: more money is needed, better access to medicine is needed, but this medicine is not enough on its own, because for many of the people who are given the medicine, it doesn't work unless they also get food. and then there is the need for enlightenment, enlightenment, enlightenment! it is extremely important that the problem of what causes aids be tackled. i am very pleased that the commission and the member states of the european union are supporting the idea that we should put aids on the agenda even more than we have done so far. it's necessary if we're going to do anything about the epidemic.
for the ecr group. i am not sure that this is the case. i take the floor on this report because of the section on migration. i think it is perfectly logical when the rapporteur chooses to link the foreign aid we are financing with the need for better coordination of migration, not least because if we did not have uncontrolled migration, there would be far more money to actually help those people in need who are unable to get to europe. but what i always find surprising when i read these reports is that they simply call for common solutions without specifying the content. the rapporteur must have an opinion on what the common solution should be. a solution is not good just because it is common! and i have to say that if i look around among the 28 countries today, the only thing that seems to be getting the most support, or at least the most support, is a push model, where you focus more on helping the people in the nearby areas who are really in physical need, who can't afford to bribe smugglers who won't risk their lives crossing the mediterranean, than you focus on those who have come to europe that way. so i wish there had been more focus on helping the nearby areas, rather than what we're doing here.
mr president, i would like to thank you. europe needs a common consolidated tax base which the national states can use for the necessary collection of the taxes that must be collected. today, large international companies choose how much they want to pay in taxes. they call it tax optimization, and unfortunately there are some countries that are more than willing to help these companies. so we need to have taxes paid where the profits are generated. and the losers in this tax fraud game, as i like to call it, are the small and mediumsized enterprises. the small and mediumsized enterprises have no way of avoiding paying their taxes when they have made money. and so this is damaging to the internal market. the big ones decide how much they want to pay in taxes, the small ones have to pay at the first box. and let us not forget that smes generate 80% of all jobs created in the eu. that is why we must have a level playing field for these companies. it is also important for the credibility of the eu vis-à-vis its citizens that something is actually done about the tax evasion we have seen in recent years. sometimes we in the eu legislate about a lot of little things that are difficult for citizens to understand. at the moment, the public finds it difficult to understand that we do not intervene against these international companies which are simply cheating on their taxes.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the proposal here today is a necessary intervention in the way our securities market works. that is why we are voting in favour. we consider it essential that we tackle high-frequency trading, which has led to some enormous destabilisation of the financial markets, and that we tackle algorithmic trading and futures trading. i am thinking in particular of the derivatives trade in foodstuffs, where the possibility of raw material derivatives was originally introduced in order to enable farmers to take home the profits of the future harvest a little sooner. we saw how this developed into some huge bubbles, which led to increases in food prices, which have had disastrous consequences, especially in developing countries. it is good that we are here after all - several years after the financial crisis, but better late than never - to regulate these areas so that we have a securities market, a financial market that operates on fair and reasonable terms and not according to the rules of the jungle.
in writing. ‒ this agreement gives us another tool to counter illicit trade in tobacco. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ the agreement facilitates and liberalises trade in motor vehicles. this will be done by harmonizing the technical specifications for the approval of equipment and spare parts for motor vehicles. harmonisation is a positive step, as it ensures transparency for both consumers and traders. in addition, we ensure that all equipment and spare parts can only be approved if they meet the safety requirements set by the eu.
in writing. ‒ the agreement ensures that croatia, as the newest member state, becomes part of the eu's trade agreement with colombia and peru. this is a positive development, since all member states must have equal conditions for international trade. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ a number of member states in the council have opted for enhanced cooperation on the rules on the property of international married couples and registered partnerships. the group of member states has chosen to enter into this cooperation because the council cannot agree on the two regulations which the commission has presented in this field. it is of course essential that registered partnerships be fully recognised as married couples. denmark does not participate in the cooperation on property, but since this concerns a number of member states which have opted for enhanced cooperation, i will not stand in the way of that.
in writing. ‒ with the agreement, we can be pleased that we have now achieved the first multilateral initiative to combat illicit trade in tobacco and cigarette smuggling. the agreement ensures control of the supply chain. at the same time, we will also improve public health and the fight against tax evasion. denmark is covered by the reservation of rights, but i regard this as a positive step and have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ it is regrettable that problems with it systems mean that the implementation of mifid/r has to be postponed by one year, but the postponement is necessary to ensure as correct and smooth implementation as possible. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ rimantas šadžius has won a large support in parliament. however, it is crucial to always choose the candidate with the best qualifications. during the hearing of rimantas šadžius, he showed great competence, was well prepared and motivated. that's why i support the nomination.
in writing. ‒ the lisbon treaty included for the first time an obligation to pursue a consistent policy line in the context of development policy. however, it has proved difficult to implement. the eu should therefore take the lead and lead the fight to ensure a consistent and coherent policy in this area.
in writing. ‒ the agreement commits the eu and africa to promoting the sustainable growth of african agriculture. such an agreement is necessary if we are to secure a sustainable and future-proof solution for the african economy.
in writing. ‒ to achieve financial stability and sustainable growth, it is important that we can effectively control and regulate the financial sector. international accounting standards help to make the accounts of companies more transparent, reduce the costs of doing business and thus improve competitiveness. the agreement must be transparent. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ the eu's cooperation with the un and the african union is essential if we want to create and maintain peace in africa. the european union must therefore continue to help and cooperate with africa, especially if we want africa to take on the task itself in the future. because of denmark's defence reservations, we do not support the specific elements of the report which propose increased military coordination in the eu. we do not want to prevent other eu countries from taking such a decision.
in writing. ‒ due to demographic challenges, adaptation of both food production and the way we consume and dispose of food will be necessary. by strengthening innovation and promoting techniques such as ict-based control and real-time data monitoring, we can reduce the use of fertilisers, improve soil quality and water management. however, it is important that we also tackle the major problem of food waste. every year, 100 million tonnes of food are thrown away in europe. the report provides a balanced approach, focusing on innovation and food waste. that is why i support the report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement will grant eu citizens visa-free travel to palau. this is beneficial for eu citizens, as they can now travel freely to and from the country without restrictions. however, it is important to always comply with the rules established for the duration of the stay.
in writing. ‒ the agreement will grant eu citizens visa-free travel to tonga. this is beneficial for eu citizens, as they can now travel freely to and from the country without restrictions. however, it is important to always comply with the rules established for the duration of the stay.
in writing. ‒ the agreement will grant eu citizens visa-free travel to colombia. this is beneficial for eu citizens, as they can now travel freely to and from the country without restrictions. however, it is important to always comply with the rules established for the duration of the stay.
in writing. ‒ the agreement to expand trade in information technology under the wto is in itself a clear step forward. the multilateral system under the wto is important and i prefer that it works and that there is a transcription here. that is why i voted for the agreement. a large part of the industrial goods covered by the ita are now being moved out of the doha negotiations. the main argument against the ita agreement may therefore be that we are weakening the doha negotiations. but the doha round is, if not dead, then in a deep, deep coma. it is a major problem that the industrialized countries are hiding behind doha instead of quickly meeting the developing countries with increased liberalizations on agricultural products. the eu in particular has a protectionist agricultural policy which must be abandoned as soon as possible. instead of waiting for progress in the doha negotiations, the eu should remove its agricultural protectionist measures - by itself. it would be fair and would benefit the developing countries, but it would also be a win for european consumers.
in writing. ‒ the agreement will be the first major tariff reduction agreement since the wto was set up. the agreement therefore has a great potential to create jobs and boost gdp growth. in addition, the agreement may also lead to lower prices for consumers, but also for producers who are dependent on imported components. however, some sectors will also experience increased competition and it is therefore important that the agreement takes account of a longer phase-out for certain products considered to be sensitive.
in writing. ‒ denmark is covered by the reservation of rights in this area. however, i support the eu's ratification of the convention, as it has already been ratified in danish law.
in writing. ‒ denmark is covered by the reservation of rights in this area. however, i support the eu's ratification of the convention, as it has already been ratified in danish law.
in writing. ‒ the agreement ensures closer cooperation between the eu and the philippines. closer cooperation will benefit both sides economically and strategically. it is important, however, that we do not compromise on the requirement that the philippines respect human rights, labour rights, social rights and environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ the agreement ensures closer cooperation between the eu and the philippines. closer cooperation will benefit both sides economically and strategically. it is important, however, that we do not compromise on the requirement that the philippines respect human rights, labour rights, social rights and environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ the agreement ensures closer cooperation between the eu and the philippines. closer cooperation will benefit both sides economically and strategically. it is important, however, that we do not compromise on the requirement that the philippines respect human rights, labour rights, social rights and environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ tunisia's economy has been hit hard by falling tourist revenues since the 2015 terrorist attack. such an economic downturn could be dangerous for tunisia's democratic development. the eu's financial loan to tunisia can help to reverse economic developments and thus also strengthen democratic consolidation. that is why i support the motion.
in writing. ‒ strengthening efforts to combat tax evasion by multinational companies is necessary. tax evasion costs european governments billions of dollars in lost tax revenue every year. that is why we are calling for an ambitious agreement to prevent tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the us senate report describes how torture is an ineffective means of preventing and prosecuting terrorist attacks. torture should never be the solution we choose in the fight against terrorism or in any other respect. it is therefore important that we distance ourselves from these acts, but at the same time remember that prosecution is a national competence.
in writing. ‒ europe faces a number of security challenges both within and outside the eu. we have seen terrorist attacks, mass migration flows and hybrid warfare. that is why we must coordinate our security efforts and develop a common strategy. here a well-developed space capability can be advantageous. for example, satellites can be used to monitor coastlines and seas, thereby identifying and rescuing refugees from drowning in the mediterranean. however, because of the danish defence reservation, i shall abstain from voting in favour of the part of the proposal which deals with the expansion of the eu's military space capabilities. at the same time, it must also be stressed that denmark has reservations about a common european asylum and immigration policy.
in writing. ‒ the european space programme is important for research and development of new technologies. the european countries are too small to have their own space programmes, but the jep provides the opportunity for an ambitious programme that will bring new knowledge, new technologies, growth and jobs. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ the political and humanitarian situation in venezuela calls for action and with this agreement we support the eu and the union of south american nations strategy for emergency aid to the venezuelan people. however, humanitarian action must be combined with political action so that we can also curb the growing unrest in the country.
in writing. ‒ the commission should have presented the scientific criteria for endocrine disruptors by the end of 2013. the criteria have not been met, but they are necessary if public health is to be safeguarded. it is therefore also essential that we put pressure on the commission and with this resolution we criticise the commission for a process which is far too slow.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this regulation is to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. the regulation does not specify which documents are to be accepted, but acceptance can be made faster, for example by making public documents available in more languages. i support the outcome of the debate and therefore vote against a proposal to withdraw the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. ‒ this regulation is a follow-up to the third court of justice regulation. this regulation transfers the staff case to the civil court. the follow-up is necessary to complete the final adjustment of the court of justice regulation. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is an important step towards better administration and greater transparency in the administration of the eu institutions. that is a positive thing, and that is why i support the proposal.
in writing. ‒ it is important that the rail industry is not pushed into crisis by unfair competition, especially from asia. that is why we must safeguard industrial jobs and support a vulnerable sector. the agreement introduces a series of measures to ensure that the industry remains competitive, sustainable and future-proof. that's why i'm supporting the deal.
for the ppe group. mr president, my speech is on the report and the progress report on renewable energy. i would like to thank mr lópez bermejo for his good and constructive cooperation in the negotiations, which have not been easy. there are some clear dividing lines between the political groups on this issue. on the one hand, there is the more realistic side, which recognises that objectives must be achievable, otherwise they are worthless. on the other hand, there are the unrealistic, who simply want higher goals at all costs and believe that an own-initiative report by the european parliament will achieve the objectives set. i think we should recognize that the heads of state or government have set themselves some sensible, forceful objectives which they have committed themselves to implementing. i could have wished for more, but the 27% renewable energy target for 2030 is a great commitment and shows our investors that the eu and its member states have ambitions and will deliver on them. i hope that my colleagues in the european parliament across the political groups will bear this in mind when they vote on the matter today. i would like to stress that the epp fully supports the diversification of the eu's energy sources with renewable energy at the centre to achieve a more sustainable energy mix in europe and deliver on our agreed objectives. we recognise and support renewable energy as a prerequisite for achieving sustainability, growth, competitiveness and creating more european jobs. in the ppe we believe it is important to find long-term and sustainable solutions. we are working to make renewable energy work on market terms and we are reducing the cost of renewable energy. this is necessary to bring down energy prices, benefit european businesses and energy consumers. i am pleased to note that the report has covered a number of the priorities of the ppe. this includes respect for the member states' competences to determine the energy mix and the need for cost reduction and reasonable market conditions, including the gradual phasing out of state aid for market-ready technologies. there are still a handful of elements in the report and some amendments which are both unrealistic and inappropriate. i hope that we can get some good objectives adopted with this report today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. energy efficiency can benefit us all. we can reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, reduce our dependence on imports from russia and provide cheaper energy for consumers and businesses. however, the report shows that many member states have not taken the necessary steps. it is not in line with the objectives of the energy union and we need to show the world, and not least the eu, that we are united in sustainable solutions and that the eu must be a leader in both energy efficiency and renewable energy. i am glad that we have included a point in the report on adhering to the objectives already agreed at cop 21 and i think it is important to stress that the green transition does not have to hamper either the economy or industry. look at the great companies like danfoss, vestas, velux and grundfos, they're great companies, all based on green ambition and innovation. they bring money to my home country with their large exports and at the same time make energy cheaper for the consumer. and so, the experience shows that energy efficiency is both economically viable and greener and cheaper for all of us. i therefore look forward to the revision of the directive we are facing and i hope and will work towards some very ambitious and binding objectives for this.
mr president, on behalf of the ecr group, i would like to move an oral amendment which changes this amendment so that the second part is deleted, and the words ‘based on his ineptitude, language and hostility towards the british people and others who wish to organise referendums on eu membership’ is taken out. so the only thing that remains, and on which we will vote, is the following: ‘calls for the resignation of commission president jean-claude juncker.’.
in writing. ‒ with its decision to leave the eu, the uk has made a landmark choice about its place in the world. there is no doubt that i had hoped very much that the british would remain in the european union. but a majority of the british people wanted it differently, and that must of course be respected. i therefore believe that it is in everyone's interest, and in particular in the interests of the british, that formal withdrawal negotiations should begin as soon as possible. prolonged uncertainty about the uk's relationship with the eu will hurt the uk economy and could lead to a decline in real wages and mass layoffs. the result, however, must also be a wake-up call for the rest of the eu. i do not believe that what is being asked of the people of europe now is more treaty changes or long speeches about how to make the eu more relevant and citizen-friendly. i think what really matters is results. we must deliver the policy solutions europe needs: an effective fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance, against social dumping and wage suppression, for ambitious and binding environmental and climate targets, for strong cooperation on cross-border issues and real investment in europe's economy that will create growth and jobs at fair wages and on contractual terms.
mr president, i would like to thank you. because of the energy labelling rules adopted in 2010, which we are now strengthening with our debate today, and because of the strict energy requirements for industry adopted in this parliament, by 2020 we will have saved the equivalent of the entire annual energy consumption of italy. each household in the eu will save on average about dkk 3 500 on its energy bill - a year, mind you! it is the value for the environment, for the climate and for the average european citizen, whether he or she is danish, italian, czech or portuguese. this piece of legislation is an unconditional european success, and a success which we are now making greater by strengthening and extending it. now we're going to get rid of the confusing a+, a+++, a+++ labels on refrigerators, washing machines and vacuum cleaners. in the future, you'll only have to deal with a-to-g marks. we are now making it even easier to protect the environment and the climate and to save on electricity bills.
i have to say, madam president, the british people have spoken. it may not be equally pleasant or equally comfortable for all, but they have done it. we must note in particular that it is the most disadvantaged groups who have stopped. they think the price is too high. they also face massive problems of social dumping, for example. not because workers are coming from other eu countries, but because companies are using the eu and the eu's single market to push wages and working conditions. they're playing the workers against each other. but we must recognize the british choice. they want to leave the eu, but they also want to cooperate and continue to cooperate. we must of course ensure a good and proper exit and ensure that no one is isolated, but that we cooperate. there is also cooperation outside the eu. and then we must ensure that the citizens of other eu countries also have the right to be heard. we should not be afraid of the voice of the people, but listen to it, and it is high time we asked them.
in writing. ‒ this agreement will make it easier for tourists and businesses alike to travel between and within the eu and peru, and thus further open up access to one of the fastest growing economies in the world over the last 10 years. at the same time, it ensures that there is satisfactory control of persons entering the eu from peru. in parallel, more formalised cooperation has been established between the peruvian authorities and europol with a view to cooperating in the fight against organised and crossborder crime. on that basis, i have decided to support the agreement.
rapporteur. – madam president, if i were to present this report using only four words, they would be these: expose, disclose, punish and protect. in reverse order: we need to protect whistleblowers, we need to punish those who profit so immensely from illegal tax construction, we need automatic and mandatory systems to share and disclose our own data, and we need to expose the shadowy practices of the industry of tax avoidance. the final report of the tax rulings special committee provides concrete proposals and demands for doing just that. in the last few years, two events have been absolutely instrumental in our fight against tax evasion and tax havens: luxleaks and the panama papers. let me be crystal clear on this point: if it was not for whistleblowers, we would not be gathered here today, and if it was not for the international consortium of investigative journalists, the secrecy would have remained and the shadowy business practices would have continued. so to mr deltour, mr halet and mr perrin, i say a clear, warm and heartfelt thank you on behalf of this parliament and on behalf of taxpayers and citizens across europe. it is, quite frankly, a disgrace not befitting a modern democracy that two of the three have now been sentenced by a court of law for exposing the crimes of others. this much must be cause for outrage and for real change in europe. i therefore look to the commission to come forward with a clear legal framework for the protection of whistleblowers in europe. i look to the council to work with parliament to ensure the swift and efficient adoption and implementation of such new safeguards for whistleblowers. tax havens should not be able to exist in the year 2016. we know exactly where they are; we know exactly what they are doing; and we know exactly what we, the politicians of europe, should be doing to stop them. so why don’t we? i want to thank commissioner moscovici for his excellent work on the proposal for a common eu list of non—cooperative jurisdictions, the so-called blacklist of tax havens, and it has to come with clear, automatic and substantial sanctions, not only for the countries and territories on the list, but also for the banks, tax advisers and companies who are engaged in unlawful practices in these territories. europe is an economic superpower, and only together can we bring tax havens to change their ways. together, we have entered into groundbreaking new agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino and monaco. together, as a european union, we are on the brink of doing away with banking secrecy in europe. no single european nation, no matter how large, could bring about this change on its own, but together we can – and must – ensure tax justice for european citizens, for developing countries and for small and medium-sized enterprises, who pay on average 30% more in tax than the multinational corporations, and, of course, for the sake of justice and preserving our welfare states in europe. transparency and accountability are our most important tools in the fight against tax havens and tax evasion. today, i am calling for an eu register of beneficial ownership to form the basis of a global register and for the commission to give serious consideration to the idea of a global register of financial assets. these two proposals alone will cut to the very heart of the shadowy business of tax havens and tax avoidance. we need to bring them to the table now. let us do away with our own secrecy in the european union. for years on end, european progress on curtailing harmful tax practices was slowed – and sometimes even stopped – by some member states in the code of conduct group. the code of conduct group has for far too long provided a closed forum for the countries of europe to stall needed new rules and legislation. let us work together to fundamentally reform the code of conduct group to ensure that it is both efficient, transparent and accountable to the citizens of europe. finally, i would like to thank my co-rapporteur, mr michael theurer, for his excellent cooperation and constructive spirit. i want to thank the shadows and commissioner moscovici, commissioner vestager and commissioner hill for their contributions to the special committee, and i also want to give special thanks to my good colleagues in the tax rulings special committee for their excellent work. i look forward to the debate. (applause)
i have to say, madam president, this report is a clear improvement on the previous one from taxe 1, in particular because it clearly and unequivocally criticises the european commission for not providing the necessary documents. i would therefore like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their hard work. unfortunately, there are also obvious flaws, as seen from my chair. the report does not deal with the problems created by the internal market, which has created a very good framework for moving profits from one country to another in order to avoid or reduce taxation. this is what we see in the case against sweden. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. the commission is not satisfied with this and has sent a letter of formal notice. we should have room for criticism from the european parliament. at the same time, it is obvious and frustrating that we still have to be held accountable. those who exposed the scandals have been convicted by the court, but nothing has happened to those responsible. they are still sitting comfortably in their posts, and that is deeply frustrating.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for the strong support for the report and for our common work on that. i want to start by thanking the commission and commissioner moscovici, including for the decision taken in the commission today, again enhancing the fight for transparency. i could highlight a number of the issues on which you adopted positions today, but one of them is beneficial ownership: a public register is something that we really need in the european union and i also commend you for taking the step you did in that regard. i hope that member states will follow suit on your ambitious proposals. secondly, there was a debate on what a fair tax system is. we have to remember that a tax system in which some multinational corporations are paying less tax than small and medium-sized enterprises is not fair. it actually distorts competition. it is destroying jobs in europe when small and medium-sized enterprises, which create eight out of 10 jobs in europe, do not have the same conditions as the big multinational corporations. also, if we allow our tax base to be eroded by profit-shifting out of europe, we will leave the tax burden to ordinary citizens – to labour, to people who work hard and pay their taxes and are maybe on very low salaries. it is really important to understand that a fair tax system is one in which multinational corporations will pay the same type of tax as small and medium-sized enterprises and contribute to society so that we can maintain in europe our welfare state and our way of life. tax justice and citizens’ trust in governments also depend on just tax systems, in which multinationals pay the tax they should. finally, on the discussion here, i want to make one comment in the wake of brexit. colleagues raised the issue of corporate taxation. we see in the uk now proposals to reduce corporate taxation to 15%. it is very important for all of us that we fight this race to the bottom. we have to fight fragmented tax systems that allow tax dodging, but we also need to fight a race to the bottom, in which big multinationals do not pay taxes, because this is contributing to the huge and increasing inequality we see in our societies, and we should fight back against that.
in writing. ‒ for me, it is an important principle that the eu budget reflects the economic reality of the member states. the budgetary savings in denmark and the other 27 countries mean that the eu must tighten its belt. similarly, it is also appropriate that when there is an unexpected surplus in the eu budget, that money should be channelled back to the member states. i do not think that the eu budget needs to be increased in resources, but that instead it should be given greater priority within the budget it already has, for example by restructuring and eventually abolishing agricultural aid.
in writing. ‒ energy efficiency labelling is a major european success. thanks to stricter eu energy efficiency requirements and the requirement to be labelled with the familiar stickers on televisions, refrigerators, washing machines, etc., we will have saved the equivalent of all of italy's energy consumption by 2020. but even if the scheme is already a success, it can easily be improved. we are now working on this by abolishing the confusing a+, a++ and a+++ labels, so that you only have to refer to whether a product is a, b, c, d, e, f or g labelled. this will make it even easier to make the best product choice for the environment, the climate and your own pocketbook.
in writing. ‒ i believe that it is essential to maintain strict budgetary discipline and to ensure coherence between the economic realities of the member states and the eu. i have therefore been unable to vote in favour of the report as it stands. i will not support initiatives which involve direct and self-determined revenues for the eu budget, such as a genuine eu tax or a future financial transaction tax that goes to the eu coffers instead of to the member states. instead, i believe that there must be better prioritisation within the existing budgetary framework in the eu and that there must be better allocation of funding for new initiatives by cutting back on other projects, for example by phasing out agricultural aid.
in writing. ‒ tax fraud in all its forms costs every year the equivalent of dkk 15 000 for every single eu citizen. it's money that could have gone to our public schools, our nursing homes and our hospitals. instead, all too often, it ends up in tax havens, aided by an industry of tax-cutting advisers and certain big banks, who at best turn a blind eye and at worst are deeply involved in these illegal tax structures. it is high time to put an end to this welfare theft, and that is why i am also proposing in my report that advisers, banks and companies found guilty of deliberate, systematic and repeated tax evasion should be deprived of the right to operate throughout the eu. i also propose that tax advisers should be held directly and proportionately financially liable for the tax evasion they help to perpetrate and that the eu should have a common blacklist of tax havens in place by the end of the year. at the same time, i want a common and public register of real owners so that we can get rid of shell companies and shell companies.
blue-card question. – thank you for your speech. i follow your thinking on almost everything, but i would just like to ask if you are aware that the ngo bill only affects funding from foreign states. private support, which comes in floods to support the settlers and so on, is not covered by this law. it only affects foreign funding, and that makes what is going on even more outrageous.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, madam high representative, let us imagine the following dramatic situation: a young girl is kidnapped and held hostage for a very long time in a house in a busy urban area, the neighbours are aware but say nothing. the victim breaks a window to escape but the police arrest her and bring her back to her kidnapper. the authorities tell off the girl for breaking the window. they asked the kidnapper to treat her with more respect in the future and they pay for the broken window and provide the girl with food and medicine as she stays hostage. this sounds absurd does it not? well, this is exactly what the eu is doing towards the occupation of palestine. staying silent about violations of international law, balancing, beyond absurdity, responsibilities of the acts of the occupier and of the occupied, subsidising israeli occupation through its assistance to the palestinian people and allowing the israeli army to destroy eu-funded projects. ms mogherini, why did you co-sign a quarterly report which does not include a single reference to international humanitarian and human rights law? why is the fight against impunity missing? what about cooperation with the un and the icc? why not one word about the separation wall? why is your report ignoring the growing attack against civil society, and in particular, as i mentioned before, the israeli ngo bill? there will be no peace without societies on both sides ready to accept that peace is better than conflict. the ngo bill which is about to be adopted by the knesset will profoundly damage israeli democracy and undermine the few remaining partners for peace in israel. this report, sorry to say, is shameful. it shows zero political will and only reflects the total and continued failing of the eu and the member states in this conflict.
mr president, only a few short hours ago this parliament voted by an overwhelming majority for decisive new steps to protect whistle-blowers like mr antoine deltour, mr raphaël hallet and mr edouard perrin. there can be no doubt either in the commission or in the council that this house will not accept revenge prosecution of whistle-blowers. there can also be no doubt on what is now expected from the commission and the council. i want to stress that we do not want to intervene in member states’ competences, that is not what i am calling for, but there should be no doubt that right now europe is failing big-time, failing whistle-blowers who dare to stand up and speak out. commissioner, we need as a bare minimum a strong, clear and coherent eu legal framework to protect whistle-blowers. we need to commit the eu member states on a set of minimum standards that would ensure that scandals such as luxleaks and the panama papers will see the light of day. as there are so many people out there, potential whistle-blowers, who are now afraid of prosecution because they see what happened in luxembourg, we also need to stop the automatic prosecution of whistle-blowers and to ensure that authorities use their full resources to prosecute the real criminals – not the whistle-blowers who are the heroes, but the real criminals behind tax evasion and tax dodging, not the whistle-blowers. therefore, i call on you again: please come up with a clear legal framework at eu level to deal with this, because we need it now and we need it urgently.
mr president, nine eu countries are members of the basel committee on banking supervision, but they have limited powers and hold only 15 seats out of the total of 53 seats in the basel committee. nineteen eu countries are not basel members at all. therefore i share the concern of my colleagues regarding the expected recommendation of the basel committee on capital flows. mr ferber said this evening it is good for the us, bad for europe. i sincerely hope that the commission will not take into account that ‘one size fits all’. this has never worked for anyone. new capital flows will lead to a higher cost of capital for banks and mortgage banks heavily involved in low-risk lending. the new capital flows that the basel committee recommends will not fit all european banking systems. for example, it fits very poorly in the country i come from, denmark, where we rely strongly on a system of low-risk mortgage loans. as it is today, banks put capital aside as a buffer against losses. more capital is reserved for riskier activities. less capital is put aside for less risky lending such as mortgage loans. with the new capital flows, banks would thus have to put more capital aside for the least risky lending activities such as mortgage lending. two horrible consequences arise from this. firstly, consumers will have to pay this bill when the low-risk loans become more expensive, the consumers – ordinary european homeowners and the smes relying mainly on mortgage loans. secondly, it only gives incentives to banks to take more risks, not less, as the bank will be punished proportionately higher on the cost of low-risk loans than on high-risk loans. that is contrary to the objective of the recommendation on capital flows. therefore, let me stress that it is important that the eu stay strong and focused and that we do not adopt the basel rules just for the sake of adopting rules. these capital flows will seriously harm growth and job creation in europe and pass on the bill to ordinary people. let us make sure that it does not happen.
having regard to the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i am not sure that this is the case. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not going to let you do this. on 15 june, a very large majority of the parliament's environment, food and public health committee voted to reject the european commission's request to approve health claims on caffeine. we hope that the whole of parliament will support that resolution when we vote tomorrow. most of us are well aware that a cup of coffee or two can briefly spark our spirits, and many of us can hardly help but feel the effects of coffee in the morning. but our objection is not whether the proposed health claims are scientifically correct or not. it is not about whether caffeine is edifying or not. our objection to the commission's wish to authorize the four caffeine health claims is basically about our wish to protect our children and young people. in order to have the proposed health claims on a product, a relatively large amount of caffeine is required and, apart from coffee, it is almost only energy drinks that contain sufficient amounts of caffeine to use the health claim. so this is really a question of allowing health claims on energy drinks. there are two reasons why we do not want to be part of that: one is that energy drinks contain large amounts of sugar. the second is that these energy drinks are consumed primarily by teenagers. energy drinks contain up to 27 grams of sugar per can, far more than the who's recommended daily intake of sugar. we do not want to be able to put health claims on products containing so much sugar. moreover, it is largely young people, even children under the age of 12, who drink these energy drinks, and this despite the fact that we are fully aware that energy drinks are not recommended for children or for young people or for pregnant women. but it says very little on the back. furthermore, studies of who drinks these energy drinks show that they are largely children and young people. products with such high sugar content and products consumed at the same time by children and young people should not be able to make any health claims. i would like to stress that the committee on the environment is not proposing a ban on energy drinks. but we do not want to be part of making an unhealthy product healthier because of a health claim! a health claim would mislead our children and our young people into thinking that energy drinks are a healthier choice than they are. the committee's rejection is based on the basic regulation (eu) no 1924/2006 on health claims, which clearly states that health claims must not contribute to the excessive consumption of a food and must not be placed on products targeted at children and adolescents. although energy drinks are not in principle targeted at children and young people, they are consumed by children and young people. moreover, health claims are obviously intended to increase sales of the beverage and will therefore lead to an increased intake of sugar. thus, a health claim on energy drinks would be in direct violation of article 3 of the health claims act. that's what we're saying no to! the committee on the environment also proposes that we should encourage member states to look more closely at the way in which energy drinks are sold and marketed. i think we need to tighten up. i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on the environment for supporting so unequivocally the rejection of the four specific health claims. but we have not just discussed them. we also discussed nutritional profiles. we are not in agreement on that point in the committee. but i would say that if the european commission had complied with the legislation and had put forward nutrition profiles, we would not have had to reject these health claims. it would have been natural! energy drinks would then have been in a category which, due to its high sugar content, would not have been allowed to use health claims. and rightly so! i know there are a lot of people who are concerned about the nutritional profiles. many people think they're like traffic lights on food. that's not the case! nutrition profiles are guidelines to be used to identify which products are allowed to make health claims. commissioner, can you please get me those nutritional profiles? we need them! but regardless, it is good to see a large majority in the committee on the environment backing it. we stand together when it comes to protecting our children and young people. we do not want our children and young people to be misled when it comes to food and drink.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the eu ensuring that it respects the obligations imposed on it when it signed the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in 2010. it is important that we fully recognise and support the special needs of disabled people. in this way we ensure that this group of citizens can maintain a life free from unnecessary restrictions and with a high degree of self-realization. that is why i voted in favour of the own-initiative report. however, it is up to the member states to decide what kind of social safety net is to be deployed in each country and to administer it. that is why i did not vote for the proposal that the eu should introduce minimum standards for social policy for people with disabilities. it is and must remain a national competence.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is no doubt that both reports play an important role in our joint efforts to achieve more sustainable development. the creation of a better internal energy market is needed. we need to use the energy we have much better. there are good opportunities to improve, especially when it comes to heating and cooling. we are importing much more energy into europe than we need. cooling and heating is one area where we can do extremely well in using the energy that is available. we are spending billions of euros importing gas and oil from russia and the middle east respectively. the money could be put to much better use if we prioritized energy efficiency more. when we talk about energy efficiency, of course, it is a red thread that i would like to see carried through the proposals that are out there and i hope that it can be implemented in the coming legislation. investing more in energy efficiency is also the best way to reduce co2. while we are saving money, we are also giving the industry behind it a much greater opportunity to innovate and create new products that can compete in the world market. there are many places outside europe that require changes in this area, and this gives us the opportunity to sell good products. in addition to saving our energy and using it better, it is also a place where we can create a lot of jobs and a lot of growth in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we can expect a flood of energy legislation in the near future. legislation that is absolutely crucial to the green transition in europe. we need a progressive and ambitious approach, and it is therefore good that we now have a strategy for heating and cooling - it is high time, because we know that the energy consumption of european citizens is spent on heating or cooling their homes. if we're serious about the green transition, we need the heating and cooling part. we have a great task ahead of us in this parliament. i would like to call for us to seek a holistic approach to legislation. otherwise, we risk a silo mentality, where we fail to optimise our systems and thereby waste opportunities that we could otherwise have exploited. we must improve the integration of renewable energy into district heating. when we talk about energy efficiency, we should not just talk about isolation, we should discuss how an interaction between our technologies can ensure maximum benefits from the least possible energy. in the context of the excellent report on market design, we must integrate new technology into the network and pay close attention to how consumers react to the new opportunities. the ambition must be a coherent energy system for the benefit of all of us. it requires a focus on solutions, not the technologies themselves.
mr. chairman, please. the scandal of the cheating software in millions of cars on the european market is not just about cheating. this scandal is about human life. because of the cheating, there have been much higher levels of the health-damaging nox gases in the air we breathe. in the eu, 72,000 people die prematurely each year from nox, about the same as those killed in road accidents. that is the crux of the scandal: people are dying and the environment is suffering. the committee of inquiry is in the process of finding out why this scandal was not discovered earlier. for now, everything points to a system failure. nobody seemed to know anything, and everyone is shifting responsibility from the european commission to the member states. the eu's way of approving and checking cars has failed. we need a new way of doing this. our control systems need to be far more suspicious. when something looks strange, we need to investigate it thoroughly and we need to have a clear division of responsibility. let us learn from this scandal, let us build a new system where people and the environment come first.
in writing. ‒ the danish social democrats have chosen to support the maltese government's nomination for the european court of auditors. we still believe, however, that it is improper to appoint politicians to the court of auditors and not auditors, and would urge the member states to appoint auditors without any political background.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report today. my colleagues in the european parliament's committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on women's rights and equality have gone too far here. they're just out of touch with reality. at a time when we have major security policy problems and the wavering support of european citizens for the union, we simply cannot defend this report. we want to intervene where there is purely national competence, right down to family policy, for example, how many hours our children should go to school, how eu countries should organise their social and tax policies, and how families should allocate their maternity leave. let us now live up to the expectations of our citizens and solve our great common european challenges, and then let the individual member states and families take care of the intimate relations. otherwise we risk seriously ruining the european project.
in writing. ‒ the social democrats in the european parliament want to update eu legislation to create a better work-life balance. we support initiatives that improve gender equality, strengthen the right of fathers to leave and increase women's participation in the labour market. that is why we have voted in favour of the report as a whole. however, this should not be interpreted as supporting all the individual initiatives mentioned in the report. the danish social democrats generally want to see a greater focus on father's rights, as this is essential to achieve a more equal distribution of parental leave. some of the proposals in the report could, if they were legislation, be counterproductive to this objective. at the same time, there are certain areas where the danish tradition is to conclude agreements between the social partners and where we do not want legislation at eu level. as this is not a legislative report but an own-initiative report, we have chosen to support the overall message of ensuring greater equality and gender balance through improved rules, in close cooperation with the social partners and taking into account the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ the social democrats in the european parliament want to update eu legislation to create a better work-life balance. we support initiatives that improve gender equality, strengthen the right of fathers to leave and increase women's participation in the labour market. that is why we have voted in favour of the report as a whole. however, this should not be interpreted as supporting all the individual initiatives mentioned in the report. the danish social democrats generally want to see a greater focus on father's rights, as this is essential to achieve a more equal distribution of parental leave. some of the proposals in the report could, if they were legislation, be counterproductive to this objective. at the same time, there are certain areas where the danish tradition is to conclude agreements between the social partners and where we do not want legislation at eu level. as this is not a legislative report but an own-initiative report, we have chosen to support the overall message of ensuring greater equality and gender balance through improved rules, in close cooperation with the social partners and taking into account the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ the social democrats in the european parliament want to update eu legislation to create a better work-life balance. we support initiatives that improve gender equality, strengthen the right of fathers to leave and increase women's participation in the labour market. that is why we have voted in favour of the report as a whole. however, this should not be interpreted as supporting all the individual initiatives mentioned in the report. the danish social democrats generally want to see a greater focus on father's rights, as this is essential to achieve a more equal distribution of parental leave. some of the proposals in the report could, if they were legislation, be counterproductive to this objective. at the same time, there are certain areas where the danish tradition is to conclude agreements between the social partners and where we do not want legislation at eu level. as this is not a legislative report but an own-initiative report, we have chosen to support the overall message of ensuring greater equality and gender balance through improved rules, in close cooperation with the social partners and taking into account the principle of subsidiarity.
madam chairman! i have taken the floor to address an appeal to you. i would like to call on all of us to stand together today, regardless of the country or political party we come from. that we are united in sending a signal to european workers and businesses that we take them seriously. we take it seriously when cleaners, soil and concrete workers, drivers and pilots from different european countries are being played off against each other and underpaid. we take it seriously when companies that pay their employees a proper wage and respect the common rules of the game we have in europe are out-competed by people who cheat. we may disagree on exactly how we are tackling the problems, but by voting for this report we are showing the citizens of europe that we take them seriously and that we refuse to accept a race to the bottom. we have not created a common market to reduce wages and working conditions as much as possible. we have created a common market to increase prosperity and welfare in europe and to ensure fair competition and fair working conditions throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the own-initiative report on social dumping. yes, there are a few places where i think the text could be better. i think the commission's proposal for sole proprietorships is a good idea for entrepreneurs, but it is a statement of my own position that there is a need for fair competition and fair working conditions, for example for the airline and the lorry drivers. we need to have better control of registers across the authorities in europe so that we do not see fraud and deception with fake companies. freedom of movement is a good which should not be abused.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank mr karas for a very good report on the financing of our small and mediumsized enterprises. i would also like to thank commissioner dombrovskis, who has been deeply involved in this issue. when we talk about the capital markets union, there are of course some handles in the toolbox. i think we have to take the whole range, because on top of the financial crisis it has become even more pronounced that small and mediumsized enterprises are having difficulty in obtaining the capital they need. it is also what we hear from all the speakers tonight, that we have to do something more. today we heard that mr juncker is increasing the entire investment plan. it is also good for small and medium-sized enterprises. many have already received funding from the first part of the package. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively and that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. now that we are facing a revision of the capital requirements directive iv, we are facing, in fact, stricter rules again from the basel committee, which means that we have to cushion even more. if we compare european companies with american companies, the americans finance their businesses with corporate bonds, while we in europe finance our small and mediumsized businesses with bank and mortgage bonds. we must therefore ensure that we get a proper solution when dombrovskis now starts capital requirements directive v.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a very good report. the report deals with an important subject which affects us all. the question of creating a diverse labour market that is open to all, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, ethnicity, social origin, religion or disability. in my view, action on equal opportunities and equal treatment must be seen as a challenge to the discrimination experienced by far too many people. if we look at the situation of women in the labour market, we see too great a disparity in pay and conditions of employment, despite the fact that they have the same training and work tasks as their male colleagues. similarly, our minority groups in society struggle against prejudice, and often ignorance, among potential bosses and future colleagues. this makes their entry into the labour market far too difficult and sometimes almost impossible. our societies need to adapt to the cultural environments of today in order to put an end to the discrimination that far too many people still experience. we must free the member states from the policies of economic austerity, we must give them the opportunity to invest in more and better jobs. we must see the fight against discrimination as an investment in the future of society as a whole. this is not an individual problem, but a collective task.
for the ecr group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. some people are under the impression that growth can be achieved by redistributing income. the last 50 years of world history have shown that this is not possible. what creates growth and prosperity and fortunately also political rights like democracy and freedom, is free trade. the fact that nations and actors can act freely and unhindered in the exchange of goods and other goods creates growth! and that is what we need in relation to the partnership countries we are talking about today. much has happened since the first agreements were concluded, but it is also time to look inward in relation to many of the more dogmatic challenges that we in the european union present. i cannot help thinking of all the noise of support in the agricultural sector, which is extremely protectionist and prevents, for example, agriculture in many of the partner countries with which we are talking from being able to act freely in relation to european producers. we also need to do a better job of assessing the programmes we put into the lake. in preparing for today, i looked back and examined when we last received special reports from the court of auditors reviewing the aid programmes in which the acp countries are involved. and we have to go back more than ten years to find a comprehensive report on all the aid programmes that we have put into the lake. that's not good enough! not, at least, considering the criticisms that were made at the time. it is therefore necessary to go over all the cases again. overall, however, there are many good points made by mr neuser and we can support the report, but more work is really needed if this is to work.
mr. chairman, please. there is something fundamentally wrong with a legal system which cannot protect its own citizens but must rely 100% on the legal systems of other countries. it is well known that there are quite large differences between the legal systems of the 28 member states today, both in substance and in form. we may all have signed the same conventions and treaties, but in the real world there is a huge difference in the way things are done, from bulgaria and romania to finland, denmark and the united kingdom to the central continent. that difference is not reflected in the arrest warrant, nor is it reflected after this legal basis was adopted today. it is not just a problem for the people who are actually affected by the fact that they are subjected to different treatments in different countries. it is a disaster from a purely traditional european point of view. it's very european. in europe we have always believed that each country should be able to protect its own citizens. but this regulatory framework prevents member states from protecting their own citizens. it's not worthy. i have to say that with the ridiculous cases we have also seen where the arrest warrant has been used on charges of stealing a pig, charges of stealing some tyres, charges of having a few grams of hashish in your pocket, we are far from an exaggeration where these rules should never have been applied. we must therefore at least have a minimum threshold for what is necessary so that member states and citizens can protect themselves against this system of regulation, which i admit is grotesque.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it is now clear that last friday’s agreement by eu environment ministers will bring forward the ratification of the paris agreement on climate change. as such, we recognise that the path is now clear for the european parliament to give its formal consent, as foreseen by the treaty. the adoption of this agreement on the cumulative announcements by the end of the cop 21 of intended nationally determined contributions by 187 parties will now form the basis of a global effort. the ecr group therefore notes that ratification will enable the eu to join with the united states, china and 60 other parties who have formally submitted their instrument of ratification. in light of this, the paris agreement will now become legally binding before the end of this year. the paris agreement carries importance for all stakeholders, whether they be investors, businesses, civil society or policy-makers. indeed, the global nature of the effort is made manifest by the 189 national climate plans which have been put forward. we should, however, be mindful that this step only marks ratification of the agreement and we await with interest to see how national governments across the eu will seek to implement the promises they have made.
madam president, combating tax evasion and tax havens is a top priority for the european union. in the last two years, much has been achieved in this fight. however, the european union also needs to be seen to act. at present, a number of high-profile cases involving mr barroso and mrs kroes are overshadowing this important fight. when former top commissioners are discovered to be linked to overseas tax havens, and the global financial companies that benefit from them, the eu’s credibility takes a justified hit. the eu cannot be seen as having double standards. the bahama leaks teach us two lessons: first of all we need to increase our efforts in combating tax havens. information provided by whistle-blowers and investigative journalists ought to have been freely available to all european authorities. it is our duty as european politicians to ensure that happens in the future through new legislation to end the world of secrecy, fraud, corruption and tax evasion, and put real pressure on tax havens. secondly, when it comes to our own procedures to avoid potential conflict of interest, we must be honest: they are not good enough. in the case of former commissioner kroes, the fact that she was a director of a holding company in the bahamas only came to light after she had retired from the commission. that proves that the vetting process for commissioners simply is not working. therefore i am calling for a review of the current vetting procedures and for clear sanctions for commissioners, present and former, that fail to live up to these standards.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. it is actually a little ironic that today we are discussing fair use and rules on abuse in relation to the use of telephony and data by citizens vis-à-vis telecommunications companies. it shows that the liberal group's proposal from the summer of 2013, which caused a lot of anger and a lot of furor at the time, but which still got a majority in the decision just before the summer break, is a huge success. at that time, it was a question of ensuring fair use for the individual consumer. the roaming charges for telephony and text messaging were almost 300% above the cost of the service and 698% on average above the cost of internet access when outside one's own country. it is therefore a great victory for parliament that we have now turned the tables and are discussing the reverse problem instead of how to prevent citizens from abusing a system where we have roaming free of charge but still do not have a real internal market for common frequencies. first of all, commissioner, it requires a very, very clear definition of what abuse really is. in my view, there can never be any abuse on the part of the traveller or of the person posted for business for a short or medium period. i'd like to make that a fact. abuse can only be when one is cheating on one's residence or trying to make a business out of buying sim cards in another country and selling them in a third country. i would therefore also like to congratulate the commission for withdrawing its proposal in 90 days and instead accepting the premise that abuse of a residence allowance or illegal buying and selling is the starting point. i still think that there are a lot of ambiguities in what the commission has put forward, but i think that we can find a common solution, and i expect everyone to live up to their election promises and take their responsibility to find solutions, that everyone lives up to the election promises that came during the 2014 election campaign, including the commission and also the member states.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would just like to express my great surprise at the way this debate is being handled in this parliament. there is no room for questions, there is no room for anything, because we are under time pressure. but it is not we who are sitting here working on this area who have that problem. we're talking about some of the most high-profile coverage of any campaign since 2014. all the parties, including the president's own party, voted on this and the commission proposed a 90-day limitation three weeks ago. the commission has now changed this to something where it says that the principles may be right but there are many unresolved issues and we do not have a chinaman's chance here to discuss what really matters to the individual citizen of europe because we have to hurry on. i think that is simply above all criticism, above all criticism! this is not acceptable, mr president! we should have the space and time to discuss something that has been ... (the president withdrew the floor)
the commission is not i would like to thank the president-in-office. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this evening we are debating the report of the committee on the environment on the implementation of the regulation on food contact materials. this may sound a little technical, but it's basically about how we ensure that the materials that come in direct contact with our food are also safe. the current eu legislation is a framework law that regulates our materials for our food packaging, etc. the framework legislation allows for the creation of common eu rules for each of the 17 types of material listed in the act. however, only four of the 17 types of material are currently harmonised at eu level. the rest is up to the member states. this creates problems for consumers, for businesses and for the authorities. in practice, this means that the single market is not a single market but a market with 28 different sets of rules. some countries have high standards and fine controls, and others have low standards and no controls. the consequence is that our consumers are left behind and that companies compete on completely different terms. for example, consumers cannot be sure that they are protected against dangerous chemicals, either from the coating of the tomato can or from fluoride in the pizza tray. in fact, we know from research that unacceptably high levels of chemicals harmful to health occur in many of the materials we use in our food. we know this from the baking paper, the paper bag for the flour, the pizza tray and the microwave popcorn, and so on and so forth. it is worrying when we know from several studies that the chemistry in food packaging causes specific health problems. for example, we know that if you have too much fluoride in your urine, it increases the risk of an involuntary abortion. that's just an example. consumers must be much better protected and businesses must have a more level playing field in the production of food contact materials. that is why we in the committee on the environment are proposing that the european commission should come forward with a proposal for a revision of the current legislation on food contact materials. in particular, we want the european commission to give priority to the development of common eu rules for the following materials: paper, cardboard, glues, coatings and ink. we also propose that the european commission develop uniform test methods for each material so that member states use the same methods to assess safety. food safety must mean the same thing throughout the eu. we also want to strengthen epsa both in terms of money and tougher requirements. we know that chemicals react together, and therefore, of course, the epsa must also check for the so-called cocktail effect. we also want the epsa to include the effect of a low but constant exposure to a substance. the amounts may be small, but if we're exposed to a substance every day, the total amount becomes large. we also think it is important that epsa takes this into account. we also want to develop specific testing methods for the safety of nanomaterials and at the same time we want food contact materials containing nanomaterials to be labelled. we want something else, too. we think it is incredible that we are ensuring better coordination between the food contact materials rules and our reach legislation. it simply cannot be that substances categorised as dangerous under reach are used in food contact materials in a completely uncritical manner. we'll have done something about that. in general, we also propose both more and better control of the production of food contact materials by the companies. some member states do not even know which companies in their country import or produce food contact materials. if they don't know about the companies, they can't control them. we also believe that declarations of conformity should not be mere rubber stamps but real evidence of safety. in this way we can ensure that both the authorities and the companies have more confidence in each other. finally, i should like to say that it is also important for us to ensure that foodstuffs are covered by the criteria for endocrine disrupting substances which the european commission is in the process of establishing. they must apply here as well. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the political groups very much for the very good cooperation they have shown on this report. it is a committee which is almost completely in agreement on this. we really want a revision of the rules and we want common rules for food contact materials to protect consumers and ensure a level playing field for businesses. it is not just us in this parliament, but also european consumers and european businesses who want the same thing. so we hope that the european commission will listen to us carefully today and come forward very quickly with a proposal for the revision of the legislation.
the commission is not i would like to thank the president-in-office. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues for being here tonight and for giving so much support to our joint report. we've had a really good run together. that is why it has become a good and solid report with some very clear recommendations. i would also like to thank the commissioner for being so open and responsive to the problems in this area and the solutions we have put forward in our report on food contact materials. we will also read it carefully when the jrc comes with its report and then we hope that we can enter into a constructive dialogue together on the subject so that we can hopefully tighten up the rules very quickly and improve consumer safety while also ensuring that we have a better and more well-functioning market for food contact materials.
in writing. ‒ the social democrats in the european parliament support the fight against corruption, money laundering and organised and crossborder crime, including through european cooperation. there are parts of the proposal which fall within the jurisdiction of denmark and others which we believe should be within the competence of the member states, such as when citizens can run for public office in their own countries and how long officials can contest them. we also support the idea of a european public prosecutor's office, as long as it is for the purpose of combating fraud against the financial interests of the union. on the whole, however, we believe that the report sends the right signal about the fight against the types of crime mentioned above, and we have therefore chosen to vote for the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the social democrats in the european parliament support the fight against corruption, money laundering and organised and crossborder crime, including through european cooperation. there are parts of the proposal which fall within the jurisdiction of denmark and others which we believe should be within the competence of the member states, such as when citizens can run for public office in their own countries and how long officials can contest them. we also support the idea of a european public prosecutor's office, as long as it is for the purpose of combating fraud against the financial interests of the union. on the whole, however, we believe that the report sends the right signal about the fight against the types of crime mentioned above, and we have therefore chosen to vote for the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the social democrats in the european parliament support the fight against corruption, money laundering and organised and crossborder crime, including through european cooperation. there are parts of the proposal which fall within the jurisdiction of denmark and others which we believe should be within the competence of the member states, such as when citizens can run for public office in their own countries and how long officials can contest them. we also support the idea of a european public prosecutor's office, as long as it is for the purpose of combating fraud against the financial interests of the union. on the whole, however, we believe that the report sends the right signal about the fight against the types of crime mentioned above, and we have therefore chosen to vote for the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are the foundations of eu membership. unfortunately, we too often see member states relaxing their requirements once they have been included. the principles of freedom of expression, press and assembly should not be subject to the discretion of member states to choose between them on the basis of political convictions. this is the cornerstone of european cooperation. that is why the danish social democrats have also supported the report. such a european mechanism or other instruments that strengthen these rights must of course add value to the work already being done by the un, the council of europe and the eu and fall within the eu's competence. it is important, however, that we find new instruments without a treaty amendment, because a treaty amendment is not realistic for the time being, and we do not entirely agree with the proposed amendments. legislative power is vested in governments, parliaments and the european commission. it is not in the hands of the court of justice of the european union, and therefore we do not support the idea that one third of meps should be able to refer adopted legislative proposals to the court of justice of the european union for review. we also want to emphasise that we already have a system in place whereby citizens of the eu can bring cases of unfair measures before the courts, including the court of justice of the european union. today it is only through the national court system, and we believe that this should be the case in the future.
in writing. ‒ democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are the foundations of eu membership. unfortunately, we too often see member states relaxing their requirements once they have been included. the principles of freedom of expression, press and assembly should not be subject to the discretion of member states to choose between them on the basis of political convictions. this is the cornerstone of european cooperation. that is why the danish social democrats have also supported the report. such a european mechanism or other instruments that strengthen these rights must of course add value to the work already being done by the un, the council of europe and the eu and fall within the eu's competence. it is important, however, that we find new instruments without a treaty amendment, because a treaty amendment is not realistic for the time being, and we do not entirely agree with the proposed amendments. legislative power is vested in governments, parliaments and the european commission. it is not in the hands of the court of justice of the european union, and therefore we do not support the idea that one third of meps should be able to refer adopted legislative proposals to the court of justice of the european union for review. we also want to emphasise that we already have a system in place whereby citizens of the eu can bring cases of unfair measures before the courts, including the court of justice of the european union. today it is only through the national court system, and we believe that this should be the case in the future.
in writing. ‒ democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are the foundations of eu membership. unfortunately, we too often see member states relaxing their requirements once they have been included. the principles of freedom of expression, press and assembly should not be subject to the discretion of member states to choose between them on the basis of political convictions. this is the cornerstone of european cooperation. that is why the danish social democrats have also supported the report. such a european mechanism or other instruments that strengthen these rights must of course add value to the work already being done by the un, the council of europe and the eu and fall within the eu's competence. it is important, however, that we find new instruments without a treaty amendment, because a treaty amendment is not realistic for the time being, and we do not entirely agree with the proposed amendments. legislative power is vested in governments, parliaments and the european commission. it is not in the hands of the court of justice of the european union, and therefore we do not support the idea that one third of meps should be able to refer adopted legislative proposals to the court of justice of the european union for review. we also want to emphasise that we already have a system in place whereby citizens of the eu can bring cases of unfair measures before the courts, including the court of justice of the european union. today it is only through the national court system, and we believe that this should be the case in the future.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the commissioner very much for this very important corporate tax reform package. tax should be paid where profits are made, and i think that is a really good guiding principle. in our single market, the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) is fundamental to an effective non—bureaucratic tax cooperation for our member states, for our companies, and for growth and jobs in europe. we need to get rid of the 28 member states’ different national systems that blur up things. it is also a crucial step to end big corporations’ tax dodging in the eu and to deliver more tax justice for our citizens. tax avoidance and evasion is threatening our welfare state in europe today by eroding the tax base. tax dodging, illuminating massive tax injustices for our citizens and smes that pay their fair taxes, is destroying jobs and growth in europe because of unfair competition and an unlevel playing field for companies in our single market. smes create more than eight out of ten jobs and should not be punished but rewarded in our market. we have witnessed numerous scandals – luxleaks, panama papers, bahamas leaks – and this has revealed a corrupt and unfair tax system. this is only the tip of the iceberg. therefore transparency, simple and better rules and effective cooperation need to replace this broken tax system. the european parliament has applied real pressure to ensure this and several times asked for an effective ccctb. this means that both the common corporate tax base and consolidation should be adopted as one package, and the threshold of eur 750 million should be lowered to make the system more comprehensive and more effective. i also very much welcome the simple and clear rules regarding r&d that in particular support smes and start—ups. it is really important that we should avoid the artificial profit shifting that we have seen in patent box systems in europe. finally, the european parliament is ready to move fast on ccctb, and member states should support us and the commission in that endeavour.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would first of all like to thank our rapporteur for the excellent work. as a rapporteur myself for the accessibility directive, i now have something good to build on, and, of course, i will try to do that. i will make the rest of my comments in danish, since i also have a danish audience. tak til ordføreren for veludført arbejde. som sagt vil jeg prøve at bygge videre på det i det videre arbejde med tilgængelighedsdirektivet. det handler om, som det også er blevet sagt tidligere fra andre, at have et velfungerende digitalt indre marked. vi tilbringer jo alle størstedelen af vores tid på internettet, og derfor har det selvfølgelig også højeste prioritet for den liberale gruppe, at alle mennesker får noget ud af det digitale indre marked. for eksempel at alle har lige adgang til offentlige myndigheders hjemmesider og apps, som det er blevet beskrevet. forslaget er på den måde en vigtig brik for at nå et endnu større mål, nemlig at vi alle får tilgængelighed også som handicappede til ikke bare nettet, men også til de fysiske aktiviteter rundt omkring i europa. nu fortsætter arbejdet med tilgængelighed for handicappede. det er vigtigt, at vi finder den delikate balance mellem et velfungerende indre marked og tilgængelighed for de mange millioner medborgere, som i dag kæmper med mangel på tilgængelighed. jeg vil gøre mit for at afstedkomme denne delikate balance. jeg glæder mig meget til arbejdet i den kommende tid.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. madam president, industrially produced trans fatty acids are extremely dangerous to the heart. it's scientifically proven. trans fats significantly increase the risk of blood clots. so there is no good reason to add it to food or cakes. we in the socialist group in the european parliament have been calling for action to be taken against this kind of trans fat for years, and so it is also a step in the right direction when the european commission is finally considering taking action. what is to be done? in the socialist group we are proposing that we should have european legislation which significantly reduces the amount of trans fats allowed in our food. we call for the immediate protection of consumers everywhere in europe from this industrially produced trans fat and we call on the commission to bring forward such a legislative proposal. is that possible? i know! i come from denmark, and we have had a law for many years that has reduced the use of industrially produced trans fats, and it has saved lives, and it has had no negative effect on business. so our appeal is: get into your work clothes and get this legislation done! we must protect european consumers from this dangerous substance.
in writing. ‒ as savings continue to be made in europe, the eu should of course not be exempted. as in previous years, staff and administrative costs are being cut across a wide range. we support this approach and insist that the eu budget should not be increased, but that better priorities should be set. we cannot therefore vote for the draft budget, which involves a substantial increase in the eu budgetary framework and contains a number of unfunded measures. we also do not think that there is any need for any further support for any of the foundations, parties or groups in the european parliament, but we do support the strict control and audit of these funds. we maintain our call for more transparent rules for auditing funds made available to members and stress the need for uniform, clear and effective rules. finally, we emphasize that members and staff should always travel in the cheapest way possible. for meps, these are typically the cheapest flex tickets, due to changing meeting schedules. we support the internalisation of the driving system because it will ensure orderly working conditions for the drivers involved, but insist that it should be cost-neutral overall.
in writing. ‒ as savings continue to be made in europe, the eu should of course not be exempted. as in previous years, staff and administrative costs are being cut across a wide range. we support this approach and insist that the eu budget should not be increased, but that better priorities should be set. we cannot therefore vote for the draft budget, which involves a substantial increase in the eu budgetary framework and contains a number of unfunded measures. we also do not think that there is any need for any further support for any of the foundations, parties or groups in the european parliament, but we do support the strict control and audit of these funds. we maintain our call for more transparent rules for auditing funds made available to members and stress the need for uniform, clear and effective rules. finally, we emphasize that members and staff should always travel in the cheapest way possible. for meps, these are typically the cheapest flex tickets, due to changing meeting schedules. we support the internalisation of the driving system because it will ensure orderly working conditions for the drivers involved, but insist that it should be cost-neutral overall.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank commissioner dombrovskis for representing european interests in the basel committee. the basel committee is not a democratic institution and many eu countries are not represented. the basel committee is a thing of the past, not even a thing of the present, and it is totally undemocratic! we have to raise this debate too. i think that is worrying, and it means that the committee's findings do not always strike a broad chord and may risk hitting some countries much harder than others quite unjustifiably. it is of course important that we have uniform conditions globally and that we ensure that banks are properly prepared for future crises, but we must be careful in europe not to just dance to the american tune when the basel committee's work is to be implemented in the eu. we have to take account of the different european banking markets and we cannot work with a 'one size fits all' model. if we are to accept uncritically a different risk assessment method than the one we have today, we are doing ourselves a disservice! we risk, in the end, making a much smaller distinction between safe and less safe loans. this will make it more expensive to borrow, whether the loan is for a secure or less secure purpose. we must remember that in europe we are particularly dependent on our smes being financed through the banks, and we must not make it so expensive to borrow money that we are slowing down growth in europe. so we are currently faced with the juncker plan, where we go out and finance a lot of small and mediumsized enterprises, and then there are people in the basel committee who want to do the opposite, namely to pull growth out of our smes, to reduce the possibilities for smes to borrow money in the future because the financial institutions have to cushion themselves. it is simply not connected and i have great hope that commissioner dombrovskis will be able to represent our interests in this matter.
madam president, commissioner, the financial crisis has shown us that there is an acute need to make our banks and finance institutions more robust to serve the real economy, investment and jobs – and not only in europe but also globally. however, it is also very important that we have a risk-based approach to regulation, with the same rules being applied to the same risk, and the way we look at the basel committee and its recommendations is also very important in europe. as you know, commissioner, many countries are not members of the basel committee, and there are also ways of financing our economy that have proved to be very strong, even during the financial crisis. i would point to covered bonds – i come from denmark and i see that some of the proposals put forward would hurt ordinary families with a mortgage loan which proved to be very robust during the financial crisis, or small and medium-sized enterprises that finance their businesses by mortgage loans, by covered bonds – and also to systems where we see consumer rights at the core. such approaches give consumers transparency, supervision and affordability. it is essential that we keep that in europe, so we need to regulate to make loans from risky banks more robust, but we also need to ensure that the system works well for the people, and that our economy is being protected so we can protect our competitiveness. i hope the commission is well aware of that.
madam chairman! if there's one thing we've learned from the many revelations about tax havens, it's that tax havens and money laundering are best kept in the dark. they live best hidden from the public. we therefore also know that one of our strongest cards against tax evasion and against money laundering is openness and publicity about tax relations and, not least, about ownership. the proposal we are voting on today is a good thing, and it should be welcomed. there is no doubt that we must ensure that the tax authorities are given all the best tools to investigate and stop tax evasion and money laundering, but unfortunately we still have to correct some essential elements. here we should first of all look at giving the public access to information on who the real owners of the companies are. after all, it is the public who have been the driving force behind the uncovering of the major tax scandals. our welfare is suffering from the lack of payments, and it is time to get out of the steppes with effective tools. today's proposal is a good one, but it does not in itself solve the problems.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report. for too long we have seen in many countries and globally a blind eye turned to tax evasion and money laundering: crimes that make up the dark web of our current system used for terror finance, organised crimes by corrupt people and organised criminals. therefore we need transparency. transparency is key. we need automatic cooperation between our tax authorities and our law enforcement authorities, and we need to exchange information of high quality. but secondly, we also need to see our banks and all intermediaries take responsibility for their own operations and businesses. the banks carry out due diligence and they need to be a barrier to illegal economic activities that they have been facilitating, without any real consequences to their business, for too long. let me give one example. in 2015 nordea bank in sweden was fined the maximum administrative fine of only eur 5 million after ‘major deficiencies’ were found in the bank’s work to prevent money laundering. in the same year nordea made a high profit, many times the fine that they actually got. so i want to thank the rapporteur for underlining two key principles: exchange of anti—money-laundering information between our tax authorities needs to be mandatory and automatic and we need to step up the fight against this.
in writing. ‒ in respect of the danish defence reserve, we voted against the own-initiative report on a european defence union. for the social democrats, nato is and will remain the primary and most important guarantee of security for denmark and the eu. it is therefore also essential for us that any steps towards increased defence cooperation in which other eu countries may wish to participate are fully compatible with nato cooperation and its structures. we do not support the idea of a european army, but of course we would like to see the possibility of developing better coordination of equipment purchases and other practical measures which could lead to lower costs across countries and which are not subject to the defence reserve.
madam president, i would like to thank the high representative. i think it is important to say, like many others, that today turkey under erdoğan is not respecting the copenhagen criteria. respect for democracy, the rule of law, minorities, free media and so on are undermined every day, but we also have to say that turkey is bigger than erdoğan. erdoğan is not turkey. however, that said, i think it is important to send a clear signal to erdoğan and similar types of leaders that we see arising around the world, leaders who do not respect democracy, who were themselves elected by democratic systems, but use their power to dismantle and undermine democratic institutions, the rule of law and so on. so this question is bigger than just turkey. i am very much in favour of freezing the negotiations, but i am also in favour of sending a strong signal to all leaders, whether it is putin in russia or leaders in our own european union who are now using methods of undermining democracy by limiting the rule of law or freedom of speech. therefore we need strong reactions. this parliament needs strong reactions.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to say to mrs mogherini that i am puzzled by her lack of action in relation to israel’s occupation of palestine, even when she is not constrained by the division of our member states. in stores across europe, honey from the jordan valley and wine from the golan heights continue to be sold as ‘made in israel’ in clear violation of the eu’s labelling rules. mrs mogherini, as guardian of the treaties, why have you not taken action to enforce these rules? you told us six months ago that you would take measures to claim compensation or restitution for eu projects demolished by israel in the west bank. demolitions have continued. they have increased dramatically, and yet you have failed to take any action. it would be nice to have an answer about what prevented you, for instance, from subtracting the equivalent of the demolition from bilateral commission programmes with israel, such as twinning or horizon 2020. mrs mogherini, you have a historic opportunity to advance a differentiation policy across eu-israel relations, distinguishing israel proper from the settlements. i am convinced that such a policy would be a landmark contribution towards peace and would also ensure that our policies are fully in conformity with international law and our basic principles. so please act now. it is for the future of israel and for the future of our relations, which would be flourishing if you did something real and not only words.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we can't see them, we can't taste them, but they're in the air. they're dangerous, and they're pollutants. they cause more than 400 000 premature deaths a year and hundreds of thousands of serious illnesses for our citizens. and these substances also harm our environment. but now we're doing something about some of them. we're going to be handling some of the most dangerous substances in the world with this air package. and we are demanding that the member states reduce the amount of pollution in the air. it's important for public health, and it's important for the environment. the aim is to reduce the adverse health effects by 50% by 2030. in other words, not 400 000 people will die, but at most 200 000 will die prematurely. is that ambitious enough? - i know. i would have liked to see it be even more ambitious. we should have done a lot about air pollution. but i also think it is important that we say 'yes' to this air package, because it is an important step in the right direction. the air pollution is serious and we have to make some demands for the member states to take action. so i am happy to say yes to the air package, but i also hope that the commission will take further initiatives in other areas so that we can really eliminate all air pollution.
i have to say, madam president, cop 22 in marrakesh clearly marks that the paris climate agreement is here to stay. this is both good and necessary, because climate change is affecting millions of people and the environment. so thank you for a really good job in marrakesh. but cop 22 must not be a sleeping bag, because promises are one thing, but action is quite another! and i think that, especially in the light of the us presidential elections, we in europe must play an even greater and stronger role, we must take on more responsibility. that means we have to raise our ambitions too. that is why i am addressing the council directly today. it is our member states in the european union in particular that are lagging behind. it is the member states that do not really want to raise the ambition. take responsibility now! do more! raise your sights! it's the only way we can solve climate change.
in writing. ‒ social democracy is committed to the protection of workers' rights, the highest environmental, food and public health standards and the right to legislate freely. we would never buy any of these for a trade agreement or any other agreement. that is why we have also worked actively to ensure that effective safeguards and guarantees were put in place for them. and to ensure the most democratic and transparent process possible. this work has borne fruit and it is therefore now written in black and white in the consolidated text of the ceta agreement between the eu and canada that neither canada, the eu nor denmark will in any way lose the right to legislate as they wish and that no existing court in either denmark or the eu will be restricted in its functioning or its mandate. in addition to the guarantees in the agreement itself, there is already an assessment by the european parliament's legal service confirming that the agreement contains safeguards on these matters. in this context, we voted against the motion for a resolution to postpone the ceta agreement for up to two years pending an opinion from the court of justice of the european union. such an opinion is already on the way, as the belgian region of wallonia will be requesting one.
in writing. ‒ social democracy is committed to the protection of workers' rights, the highest environmental, food and public health standards and the right to legislate freely. we would never buy any of these for a trade agreement or any other agreement. that is why we have also worked actively to ensure that effective safeguards and guarantees were put in place for them. and to ensure the most democratic and transparent process possible. this work has borne fruit and it is therefore now written in black and white in the consolidated text of the ceta agreement between the eu and canada that neither canada, the eu nor denmark will in any way lose the right to legislate as they wish and that no existing court in either denmark or the eu will be restricted in its functioning or its mandate. in addition to the guarantees in the agreement itself, there is already an assessment by the european parliament's legal service confirming that the agreement contains safeguards on these matters. in this context, we voted against the motion for a resolution to postpone the ceta agreement for up to two years pending an opinion from the court of justice of the european union. such an opinion is already on the way, as the belgian region of wallonia will be requesting one.
in writing. ‒ in respect of the danish defence reserve, we voted against the own-initiative report on a european defence union. for the social democrats, nato is and will remain the primary and most important guarantee of security for denmark and the eu. it is therefore also essential for us that any steps towards increased defence cooperation in which other eu countries may wish to participate are fully compatible with nato cooperation and its structures. we do not support the idea of a european army, but of course we would like to see the possibility of developing better coordination of equipment purchases and other practical measures which could lead to lower costs across countries and which are not subject to the defence reserve.
in writing. ‒ propaganda, misinformation and deliberately manipulated stories disguised as news items are increasingly floating freely. especially on social media, propaganda is being systematically spread. in some places the prevalence of propaganda and deliberate manipulation is so great that it can constitute a democratic problem. if a population does not have access to a free, critical and professionally competent press, democracy can be undermined and authoritarian forces can prevail. it is important to emphasize that a clear distinction must be made between criticism and propaganda. criticism is a vital element in a free and democratic society. so too criticism of the eu, governments, parties or politicians. criticism can be either justified or unjustified, constructive or sensational. all this must be borne by a free democratic society. propaganda is distinguished by its deliberate and systematic manipulation. propaganda is also often used to achieve other goals - such as destabilising a country or region, inciting hatred against minorities, or inciting violence and war. we cannot and must not allow this kind of propaganda to be allowed to run wild. we therefore support a number of individual proposals, but we shall not vote for or against the report as a whole, as we believe that a more detailed analysis is needed, preferably by the commission.
in writing. ‒ propaganda, misinformation and deliberately manipulated stories disguised as news items are increasingly floating freely. especially on social media, propaganda is being systematically spread. in some places the prevalence of propaganda and deliberate manipulation is so great that it can constitute a democratic problem. if a population does not have access to a free, critical and professionally competent press, democracy can be undermined and authoritarian forces can prevail. it is important to emphasize that a clear distinction must be made between criticism and propaganda. criticism is a vital element in a free and democratic society. so too criticism of the eu, governments, parties or politicians. criticism can be either justified or unjustified, constructive or sensational. all this must be borne by a free democratic society. propaganda is distinguished by its deliberate and systematic manipulation. propaganda is also often used to achieve other goals - such as destabilising a country or region, inciting hatred against minorities, or inciting violence and war. we cannot and must not allow this kind of propaganda to be allowed to run wild. we therefore support a number of individual proposals, but we shall not vote for or against the report as a whole, as we believe that a more detailed analysis is needed, preferably by the commission.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, first of all i would like to thank emily o'reilly, but i would also like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner timmermans. i'm going to take every little chance i have to thank him and praise him, and here i have an opportunity, so of course i'm going to take it. it is not often that this happens, so thank you very much for a good answer from the commissioner as well. we are glad that we have a real ombudsman, that we have succeeded in parliament in ensuring that there is no party politics in our ombudsman, but that we have a credible, independent ombudsman. all three of our ombudsmen have helped to strengthen the institution and the trust of citizens. your work has been excellent, and so has maria's report. we support it, of course. i want to look at some of the tough points. it is a question of good administration. here several colleagues have mentioned openness and transparency. it's not good enough yet. we're gonna make more of it. i am very pleased that we have included the wish for a directive on the protection of whistleblowers in the report. it's going to be one of the important things to bring here. but we also still have administrations nationally that are opposed to openness, so it's a battle that is far from won. let me also mention the other important aspect of good administration: conflicts of interest. it is strange that there are still many in the administration who think that it is enough to make a declaration of conflict of interest. no, that's not enough! they can't be there at all! we must have that system properly incorporated, also in our agencies, also in the medicines agency, also in the food agency, the ema and the efsa, making it clear that if citizens are to have confidence in the decisions that are taken, there must be no conflicts of interest. i think we should help each other strengthen this. finally, i would ask for a majority in this house to get rid of the intolerable reading rooms, where you have to sit with your fingers almost in your ears and your eyes almost blindfolded. the citizens' confidence in us is not helped by these reading rooms, so i also appeal to the social democrats to support our amendments so that we can be clear on this point in our vote.
in writing. ‒ social democracy is in favour of the platform economy and fully recognises the benefits that online platforms in the transport sector can bring in terms of, for example, reduced climate and environmental impact and increased flexibility. that is why we are concerned with ensuring a fair playing field for the platform economy. at the same time, it is essential for us to maintain orderly conditions on the danish labour market in order to prevent social dumping and unfair competition. we insist that online platforms that provide services and generate profits meet their obligations in relation to workers' rights, taxation and consumer safety. the report criticises regulation and the cooperation between the government, the people and the social partners, which is working well in denmark and other countries. we have therefore abstained from voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ social democracy is in favour of the platform economy and fully recognises the benefits that online platforms in the transport sector can bring in terms of, for example, reduced climate and environmental impact and increased flexibility. that is why we are concerned with ensuring a fair playing field for the platform economy. at the same time, it is essential for us to maintain orderly conditions on the danish labour market in order to prevent social dumping and unfair competition. we insist that online platforms that provide services and generate profits meet their obligations in relation to workers' rights, taxation and consumer safety. the report criticises regulation and the cooperation between the government, the people and the social partners, which is working well in denmark and other countries. we have therefore abstained from voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ social democracy is in favour of the platform economy and fully recognises the benefits that online platforms in the transport sector can bring in terms of, for example, reduced climate and environmental impact and increased flexibility. that is why we are concerned with ensuring a fair playing field for the platform economy. at the same time, it is essential for us to maintain orderly conditions on the danish labour market in order to prevent social dumping and unfair competition. we insist that online platforms that provide services and generate profits meet their obligations in relation to workers' rights, taxation and consumer safety. the report criticises regulation and the cooperation between the government, the people and the social partners, which is working well in denmark and other countries. we have therefore abstained from voting in favour of the report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. european shipping is one of our major export industries, creating growth and jobs, and it does so in our ports. european ports are important in a coherent transport and logistics chain, but administrative simplification is also needed here. we also need transparency in public financing so that we can have a level playing field and fair competition between ports. that will give us more assurance that the competition rules are being observed. i wish we had been a little more specific in this area, but we have to look at the time now to see how this is going to end. it will not be long before we are voting in this house on the ets (emissions trading scheme) for shipping companies. it will also have an impact on our ports, and i hope that we will find the imo track, rather than wanting to legislate ourselves here in the european parliament, where we will also have an impact on european ports. if it is true that in the future transport from third countries will go to the uk and north africa to avoid the ets, the expensive bill, then there is no doubt that this will also have an effect on our ports. i hope therefore that we can find a solution so that we do not distort the activities in european ports in favour of those just outside europe, but that is a decision we will take next time.
madam chairman! i would like to begin by thanking the commission for this tsunami of legislation, perhaps the most important in decades. we now have a unique opportunity to accelerate europe's transition from black to green energy while creating hundreds of thousands of jobs, investing massively in research and innovation and doing something unprecedented for the climate. it's a lot of things to do at once, and the winter package also takes up several thousand pages. the commission has now played its part, and it is now up to us in the european parliament and in the member states to ensure that the reform is as ambitious as possible. we have a unique opportunity to leave our mark on the history of the world. a footprint that will also make europe safer and more independent of putin's gas and the sheikhs' oil. we need green power in the outlets all over europe. as long as we're not at 100%, our goal should be to get all the way up there. i would like to see the european parliament's approach become even more progressive and even more ambitious than that of the commission. we have to move something, which also means that the outcome, seen through radical glasses, is not ambitious enough. we can and must go further! we need to take global leadership in renewable energy and energy efficiency and ensure that legislation is optimised and implemented for the benefit of all european citizens and not least the climate.
madam chairman! i thank the commission for presenting the winter package now. it is a huge piece of legislation and it is probably the most important piece of legislation in this parliament in the current period. energy policy has a direct impact on our security policy and our security of supply, as we are unfortunately becoming increasingly dependent on gas from putin's russia and oil from the middle east. in addition, our decisions affect both our environment and our climate. by making better use of european energy, we reduce our dependence on imported energy and are less affected by geopolitical turmoil. let us now live up to the slogan 'clean energy for all'! it is good to see that energy efficiency is being put in the forefront. the 30% should be no problem at all! there are a lot of jobs and employment in this policy, especially in relation to energy efficiency and energy renewal. it's in different jobs there are also jobs for people in blue suits in energy renovation! but in a broader perspective of digitization, education, etc., we also keep a lot of money at home in europe and spend the money in europe rather than sending the money to russia and the middle east.
mr president, commissioners, let me start by congratulating you, and indeed the whole commission, on this very impressive winter package with real european value. it is a good starting point, but i also think that we need to raise our ambitions. let me give a few brief examples. when i read the commission proposal on acer, i see words such as ‘may’ and ‘recommend’, but if we want a truly interconnected and sustainable european energy market that effectively does away with transmission bottlenecks, those words must be changed to ‘shall’ and ‘decide’ in a number of places. europe needs an energy regulator. we need a much stronger acer with real powers. on renewables, we remain embarrassingly close to the commission’s own ‘doing nothing’ scenario. i will once again quote commission president juncker, who said that europe should be number one in renewables, so let us beef up our ambitions as well on that point. we are ready to work with you, we have a good starting point, but we need more ambition.
mr. chairman, please. we must have the debate here, in this house, about poland, about hungary and about other countries. every time the majority in this house is defeated in the national states, in elections where a more critical, more realistic attitude towards the european union is adopted, you think you have to make yourselves the supreme judge of how a country's democratic government should act and act in the country where it has won an election. this is disgraceful! and it is all the more shameful when it is so obvious that the only thing driving the majority of this house in the witch-hunt that is going on against poland is that you are politically opposed to the government that was democratically elected by the polish people a little over a year ago. and this is so clear when, for example, the alde group has just held a congress in warsaw, where we saw the subsequent meeting here by president guy verhofstadt decide to propose again to put such a round of poland-bashing on the agenda of this house, which is quite clear in the context of the fact that you are trying to take another polish opposition party into your own group. or when commissioner timmermans chooses - instead of entering into a dialogue with the polish government, which has repeatedly responded when the commission has approached - to go around the government, to go around the official channels and to address the polish people directly in a hateful tone against their own government in a newspaper; instead of, as any responsible commission should do, taking up the dialogue with the government, which is now elected and represents poland in the council. and so i say to the commission: once again you have proved that you are acting politically! you are not competent officials, you are not defenders of the treaty! you are political tools for your own political agenda against a democratically elected government, and that is not acceptable neither to poland nor to any other country in the eu!
mr president, i would like to thank you. europol is at the heart of our collective defence against serious cross-border crime and, increasingly, in tackling emerging terrorist threats and extremism. we in alde have helped to modernise and strengthen europol in the new regulation which will come into force in may next year. we are pleased with many of the improvements we have helped to adopt. the commission has already made a number of proposals to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. but in my view, the data breach in the netherlands is a problem that we might have avoided if we had had these new control tools. but all of this, of course, requires europol to inform the european parliament if there is a breach of data security. if parliamentary control is to make sense - which i and alde support - europol must provide information, and certainly before the media have to collect stories and pass them on. and i think there are still some answers that we have to give as to when information was given and on what basis it was given. the threats of the future require cooperation between the police authorities and europol. the exchange of data is a crucial prerequisite for this. we must therefore be able to trust that institutions such as europol handle data in a responsible manner. in alde we are even ready to go further and strengthen the exchange of data between the police and even the intelligence services of the member states, but this requires the functioning of parliamentary control. it is parliamentary control that gives europol democratic legitimacy, and here we must insist on the part of the european parliament that europol respects the rules of the game.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank mrs vallina for a good report and also for the many good contributions she has made here. i'm sorry that i'm going to have to concentrate on the areas where we have problems. we have problems with the commission, which has a tendency to look at whether petitions can be brought before a court and what that looks like. that is why we have this very narrow interpretation of article 51, where it is supposed to be an experience for citizens to be able to talk to us about the whole area of the european union, including its values, and we must be very careful not to suffocate them on article 51. i think that's one of the reasons we've had so few petitions this year. then there is the formality of saying, for example, that if a case is pending before a national court, it cannot be dealt with by us. we are convinced that it can do so, that it cannot be blocked by a national court. i would therefore ask that we support amendment no 12 today, so that it becomes clear that we can of course deal with these cases. finally, let me mention a problem which also affects our citizens, namely that we in our own committee have been caught up in a bit of an efficiency dilemma, as if the most important thing was to close the cases and get rid of them. so it is not the most important thing when dealing with the citizens. the important thing is that they feel heard! as a final point, i must add that we are also hit by a bureaucracy with our important fact-finding visits. we must have done something about that!
