mr president, luxembourg took the presidency at the time of the biggest crisis europe has faced. however, it did not falter or panic. instead, luxembourg provided a professional, credible, even elegant leadership continuing, together with the current commission president, the long-established juncker tradition. the advantage of smaller member states is to play more convincingly the role of honest broker. estonia, which will take the presidency in two years’ time, is eager to learn from the luxembourg experience. i will make three observations. firstly, in terms of cybersecurity, there were two major achievements: the informal agreement on the nis directive and the political agreement of the data protection package. both constitute the backbone not only of cybersecurity, but also for the further integration of a digital europe. secondly, i am satisfied that, under the luxembourg presidency, sanctions to counter russia’s aggressive activities were maintained, despite what is happening with isis in syria. i think it is crucial for eu credibility to maintain these sanctions until the minsk agreements have been fully met. thirdly, it is very good that the council has supported the simplification of european structural and investment funds, facilitating access, especially for smes. there were also attempts to simplify of the common agricultural policy rules. however, the major challenge the following presidency continued to face is the fact that there is still no common agricultural policy in the true sense of that word. instead, we have 28 different national agricultural policies, the common denominator of which is that they are all eager to get money from the same eu source. in such a form cap also continues to be a source of mistakes and complications, but well done luxembourg.
rapporteur.– mr president, first of all i would like to thank all those who were involved in this report, especially the co-rapporteur ms gebhardt and all the shadow rapporteurs. i am very happy that this report clearly states that we need pro-innovation and pro-digital policies in europe. if we want to give companies the chance to innovate, we have to give a clear signal that we support innovation. companies are very often advised to let go of their old products in order to make room for new ones. i think this also applies to us. if the rules are no longer fit for purpose, then we have to let them go and simply review them. i am happy that this report gives strong support to the sharing economy, but it also expresses concerns at the existing barriers that are created by member states, hindering its growth instead of adapting their existing framework to ensure competition. we must keep in mind that the big multinational companies have the tools to comply with the different sets of rules, but europe’s economy is based on small- and medium-sized companies, and these are the companies that are hurt the most by the barriers. i expect the commission to be proactive in keeping the integrity of the single market. this is not only needed for the sharing economy, but also for the next wave of innovation, such as big data and the internet of things. if europe does not have a plan for this, if we fail to have a joint approach on standardisation, cyber-security and also the free flow of data, then we will miss out on its potential. it is vital for growth and competitiveness. i also expect the commission to work hard to preserve the internet as an open and neutral platform for innovation and communication. by clearly backing the limited liability of the intermediaries, we state that internet providers should not do the work of law enforcement agents. it is crucial to prevent censorship and also to protect freedom of expression, but everything relies on the empowered users, which is also an important aspect of this report. we need to make sure that citizens have better control over the use of their data and that switching between service providers is facilitated, but also that users are pushed to have basic levels of security such as end-to-end encryption and software updates. it is our responsibility to empower citizens, but it is certainly not our responsibility to tell people how they should live their lives, what to do and which services they should use. this is why our group is strongly against paragraph 8, and i hope that colleagues can support our amendment 24, because at the end of the day it is the individual who decides when to put down their phone. instead, we should focus on how to make life easier for the citizens, and e-government is a good example of that. the principle of providing information to the public authorities only once is a good example of this. it is so important that parliament is asking for it to be applied. there is so much to tell on such a broad report, but i will stop here. thank you again. i look forward to the debate.
mr president, we all agree that our life is turning increasingly digital. electronic government and electronic commerce have become our everyday reality. unfortunately, european legislation and policies are not always up to date, and some member states are not doing very well. in my native country, estonia, you may establish a company online within half an hour and administer it with the use of the internet from anywhere in the world. but online registration of companies is not yet available in all member states and only handwritten signatures are accepted by many registers. in estonia, digital signatures and digitalised documents are in use in almost all spheres of public life, but outside estonian borders it is still limited, even in the european union and even here in the european parliament where we are discussing this extremely important topic. commissioner ansip listed 16 main directions to move on with this important issue, but we still need to address very basic issues in order to ensure the proper functioning of the digital single market.
mr president, as the president of the estonian union of persons with mobility impairment and vice-president of the disability intergroup in this parliament, i am happy to see that some of the main concerns of persons with disabilities are addressed in this report. i am pleased to see that the report brings out accessibility and exclusion challenges faced by people with disabilities, as well as their integration into the labour market. furthermore, the report rightly points out the deplorable fact that the commission’s digital single market strategy for europe takes no account of the need to ensure full, equal and unrestricted access for disabled people to all new digital technologies. there is one small caveat: the accessibility and interoperability aspect should have been emphasised more. for example, we can have brilliant reading software for the blind and visually impaired, but its use can be severely limited if it is not interoperable with most devices, websites, content, etc. this is one of the reasons why free and open standards should be used across all domains of a digital single market. commissioner, this report has almost four and a half pages consisting solely of references to the former documents adopted by co-legislators, which might prove that successive commissions do not use the full potential of those texts. please try to make a difference this time. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you for this question. actually, i am not the right person to answer it. mr ansip, who has been dealing with it as prime minister for almost a century – well, at least nine years – is perhaps better placed to reply, but for my part if someone has an interest in this experience we have developed, come and ask, we never refuse to reply.
rapporteur.– mr president, i think it is very important that so many committees have been involved in drafting this report and giving their opinions and that so many members have been involved in voicing their concerns. i would like to reflect on a few issues that were touched upon here. first of all, i think we should all understand that the internet is not just a big shopping centre. it has so many layers regarding cultural diversity, innovation and research. e-commerce is also important, but it is not all about that. some members have complained that some topics are not emphasised enough in the report. i think what is important is that we have achieved a balance; all the topics are covered and they strike a balance in the report. some have voiced concerns about the once-only principle in regard to data protection. actually, i think it has a positive effect on data protection because data is not kept in one single big database but similar small databases communicating with each other, so that is important. this is how things should work in the digital age: people should be in charge of their data when they talk to the public authorities. also, i think, what is very important is that the user and the citizen is at the heart of the system and they have the control. on the sharing economy, it changes employment rules, that is for certain, but we have to see the positive effects as well. it increases autonomy for people, people are not working under control of somebody but for themselves. so this is a positive thing which we should also embrace. so thank you all and i look forward to the cooperation.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to ensure that the measures of the recovery plan for tuna are applied consistently and effectively throughout the eu by integrating them into the regulation.
in writing. - i did. i consider it important, among other things, that the report addresses the creation of a digital single market and the need to agree on certain rules, and strongly supports the development of e-government. as regards state aid, attention has been drawn to the fact that the outermost regions should be given more room for manoeuvre in the application of state aid rules than at present. this could also have been applied in the case of estonia and estonian air at the time.
in writing. - i did. the report draws attention to the fact that the recent increase in violent attacks and the increasing extremism are the result of cultural, social and economic exclusion in society. intercultural dialogue and diversity need to be mainstreamed in all policy areas, including the eu's external relations, as well as focusing on young people, making learning accessible and providing better conditions for teachers and youth workers. to achieve all this, greater cooperation is needed at all possible levels - between governments, local authorities, communities, religious groups, researchers and others.
in writing. ‒ the cultural landscape of the european union has recently undergone major changes. its society is becoming more multicultural by the day. an increasingly multicultural society requires a platform where everyone can benefit from cultural diversity. this is exactly the goal of intercultural dialogue and it results in mutual understanding without exclusion. fostering a multicultural society should not only be limited to cultural practices: the importance of language in this context has to be highlighted. multi-language learning and multilingual experience has to be promoted in the educational system not only when it comes to the official languages of the eu, but also minority languages.
in writing. - i did. in the eu financial services sector, legislation has been initiated to restore financial stability, strengthen consumer protection and apply lessons learned from the crisis. the impact and interaction of individual legislative measures has not been sufficiently analysed, and this own-initiative report is therefore important to ensure transparency and to address the shortcomings in the regulatory framework for financial services.
in writing. - i did. statistics show that there are still fewer women entrepreneurs than men. the reconciliation of home and work is often a problem, as women are stereotypically expected to manage the entire household and raise children in addition to work. as women are more often active in sectors with a lower rate of entrepreneurship, their net income is also lower. the resolution calls for greater attention to be paid to this area and for women's entrepreneurship to be encouraged, for example by facilitating women's access to finance, education and training, by allowing reconciliation of work and private life and by ensuring access to childcare services. it also calls for paternity leave to be introduced in countries where it does not yet exist.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. youth unemployment remains high in europe, reaching 40-50% in some member states. at the same time many jobs are vacant due to lack of qualified applicants. it is clear that one aspect of the problem is the mismatch of skills and demand on the labour market. close cooperation between educational institutions, state authorities, and private-sector, student and youth organisations to identify shortcomings should become the norm, so as to have a functioning network that is able to discuss and find solutions. europe underestimates the importance of vocational training and of practical experience in both high-school and higher education. vocational training offers should be developed in close cooperation with the private sector, and should provide a combined system of in-class learning and quality internships and apprenticeships. incorporating digital skills and entrepreneurship as integral part of the whole educational system will equip young people to enhance their potential better. lastly, labour mobility remains low in europe, whereas some parts suffer from high unemployment and other parts have unfilled jobs. better mutual recognition of certificates and accompanying language training could give a boost and offer new opportunities especially for young people to find employment.
in writing. - i did. in a context of worrying levels of youth unemployment and, secondly, a high number of unfilled jobs, it is important to make education systems more flexible so that they can complement and develop knowledge and skills at all stages of a professional career. it is also important to develop the link between the economic sector and educational institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the report points out what the eu has to accomplish to enable a well-functioning digital single market and makes good proposals to fully enhance the potential of the dsm. geo-blocking is one of main obstacles to be removed. blocking content and building pricing policy based on geographical location is discriminatory and in contradiction with the nature of a digital single market that should provide services and goods equally across the eu. similarly to geo-blocking, cross-border payments also hinder e-commerce. instant e-/m-payments across the eu must become a reality based on common standards. the review of the payment services directive comes at the right time and must be accomplished as soon as possible. the report rightly points out the lack of digital skills among european citizens and calls for the development of a skills strategy that should especially target disadvantaged groups in the population. e-governance must be advanced. the aim should be that our citizens can fully interact with authorities also online and are relieved from the burden to introduce the same data multiple times. lastly, digital functions only with security. i am glad that a political agreement on data protection package and an informal agreement on nis have been achieved.
in writing. ‒ it is time for europe to shed its 'old world' image in the digital sphere. we need a genuine digital single market, with policies to support innovation and research. given the wide differences between member states in the use of digital services in e-government and internet regulation, and in new business models and e-skills, eu countries should make joint efforts to overcome these differences. europe must make a decisive leap into the digital age.
in writing. - i did. the eu digital single market has a great potential to contribute to the development of entrepreneurs and businesses and would also help to overcome the financial crisis. the single market will provide consumers and businesses with better access to digital goods and services and support equal opportunities for the development of digital networks and innovative services.
the conflict in colombia has been dragging on for almost half a century, resulting in almost a quarter of a million deaths and six million displaced persons. the lengthy peace talks have now culminated in the havana agreement last december and i fully agree with ms mogherini that this is a landmark achievement we need to value. what is encouraging is that agreements have been already reached on such key issues as land reform, political inclusion of farc members, drug crops, etc., but after the long process of violence it is just and fair that these other victims deserve the centre of attention. now the question is how to heal the wounds? how to make reconciliation? the december agreement foresees an integral system of truth, justice, reparation, etc., but first of all we need to reach a workable comprehensive deal by the end of march to implement a permanent ceasefire and then for farc to lay down its arms. farc is one of the last bastions of the twentieth century cold war militant ideology that relied on violent revolution. they failed, but paramilitary groups, too, have seriously undermined democracy. finally, in all these encouraging developments one can perceive also the beneficial influence of pope francis, who has said we do not have the right to allow another failure. let us hope and do everything to achieve this.
madam president, i would first like to thank ms mogherini for all she is doing, but especially for this very, very cautious but nevertheless hopeful message which she brought here today concerning developments, concerning the window of opportunity. we have to use that, and in this sense i also want to say that maybe we have to start thinking more about the post-conflict future of syria, giving a message also to the people of syria, including people who are now here in refugee lines and camps. you said very rightly that we should not repeat the mistakes made in iraq and afghanistan. one of those was that these countries were not provided by the west, by the democratic part of the world, with the human resources needed to build up a new democratic iraq. what we can do really is give a message to the young people in these refugee lines that maybe their best future, the best realisation of their hopes, will be to prepare themselves to be trained and educated in order to go back to syria, not only to improve their own lives, but also to give a future for syria. that could be part of this marshall plan because really now we need a marshall plan for the future syria.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, let me start by saying that indeed there is, and has always been a sunni-shia divide. we are also facing a sunni-sunni divide, which we have to be aware of, and that is definitely complicating the picture in the region and far beyond. let me also share with you something that many of our friends and partners in the region, in the muslim world, share with us: that there is not so much a religious confrontation, but a political confrontation that uses religious or sectarian divides to its own purposes and that sunni and shia live together in many places in the world, including europe, and had done so for centuries before this politicisation of the sectarian divide came to the stage. i believe that our role here can be to help and facilitate a wise investment in what some of you defined as a collective security architecture in the region – that could really be the way forward to guarantee peace and security to a region that is crucial to the world, and that it is exactly this lack of vision, of a common security architecture, that is probably amplifying these tensions in a very dangerous way. how can we help in this respect? that is also something that there is a valid interest to facilitate. first of all, some of you said ‘not taking sides’: we have working relations and open channels that in some cases work, both with iran and with saudi arabia and, for sure, the implementation of the deal we have with iran on its nuclear programme opens up further possibilities for our bilateral relations with iran to develop. we have relations with iran and with saudi arabia that we can use with a clear agenda that we have to make clear to our partners and to the other actors in the region. that includes different aspects, including the bilateral confrontations that are taking place now, including the regional dynamics, including the need to invest in political solutions to the many crises we have in the region, including the need to strengthen the resilience of key countries that are particularly exposed to this political use of sectarian divides as in the case of iraq, lebanon and others, including internal developments of the countries, and including human rights, which are always on the agenda whenever we discuss with both our saudi arabian and our iranian partners. let me say to those of you that mentioned the issue of oil that you probably have to update your reflections on this, because i believe the oil prices that the world is facing today have put us in a completely different situation, including in our relations with the gulf. so, indeed, we have a political agenda. we have clear political agenda, no taboos, everything is on the table. and somehow we are in a privileged situation when it comes to talking with our partners in the region, because our agenda is clear, transparent and coherent. yes, indeed, there are some different economic or trade agendas, some belonging to our member states, but as the european union we do not have anything like that so we have a greater margin for manoeuvre in political discourse with them. i believe we definitely have to continue to invest in our relations with iran and saudi arabia, first of all with the people of these two countries, in all different forms we can put in place. we must also continue our work on two central lines of external action: our foreign policy is the first – full respect of international law – and the second, at the top of our agenda not only with saudi arabia and iran but also with many other countries in the world, is our work for the abolishment of the death penalty in the world. that is based on our principles, on our practice and also on our experience that tells us that it is not effective: it is not only something we believe is inhuman, but it is also not effective in preventing or fighting crime, including fighting terrorism. so let me thank you for the support you have given to our alliance of action in this respect. i think this will be helpful for the way forward and let me thank you again for the contribution to our work in this region that is so crucial and so close, not only to our hearts, but also to our direct interests when it comes to security and stability.
in writing.– the debate on saudi arabia and iran is a debate on future stability in the middle east region, and stability in the world. both countries are known for supporting radical and terrorist movements in their wider neighbourhood, contributing to destabilisation and inciting new conflicts. still, it is hypocritical to complain about executions in saudi arabia when under rouhani iran has executed more than 2 000 individuals, making iran the no 1 in the world in executions per capita. the current conflict between saudi arabia and iran is part of a wider intra-islamic conflict for the hegemony in middle east. the best and most reliable way to avoid these two concentrating on their rivalry will be their practical compliance with their obligations to respect human rights of their citizens. it is highly indicative that the nuclear deal with iran has not taken into account tehran’s disastrous human rights record. as the west is building its hopes on ‘moderate’ rouhani, one is overlooking the fact that the person really pulling the strings is ayatollah ali khamenei. he is set on gaining time and restoring economic relations with the west, while continuing even more intensively the export of terrorism in middle east and suppressing human rights at home.
in writing. - i did. latvia has fulfilled the necessary requirements to join the vehicle registration data exchange programme, which aims to improve transnational cooperation in the fight against and prevention of terrorism and crime.
in writing. - i did. the aim is, in particular, to ensure a certain minimum level of protection of the presumption of innocence in all member states and to strengthen the right of the accused to be present in person at the trial.
in writing. - i did. the ppe regulation addresses the confusion and duplication of the current requirements and updates the existing legislation.
in writing. - i did. the directive contributes significantly to the functioning and completion of the single market, and sets out the essential requirements that heating appliances must meet in order to be made available on the eu market.
in writing. - i did. the proposal aims to harmonise the conditions for the placing on the market of cableway alarm systems and safety devices and to ensure the free movement of these products within the eu, as well as to modernise the legislation.
in writing. ‒ did not support the objection. kyrgyzstan needs to be persuaded to move forward with reforms to improve both its economic environment and the human rights situation, and the continuation of the tariff preferences scheme could motivate them to move forward.
in writing. ‒ did not support the objection. given that certain requirements have been agreed at this stage, they should enter into force and on the basis of these, progress should be made to improve the situation.
in writing. - i did. the end of the 50 years of internal armed conflict in colombia is important for colombia itself, its neighbours and the eu, and the international community must support colombia in implementing the recent agreements.
in writing. the agreement is a major step towards kosovo's eu accession and should have a positive impact on both kosovo's economy and society as a whole. the agreement will strengthen the eu-kosovo political dialogue, reinvigorate economic relations and open up opportunities for cooperation in a number of sectors. however, achieving economic and political stability in kosovo will certainly contribute to achieving stability in the wider region.
mr president, last year more than 7 000 christians were murdered purely because of their belief. two years ago this number was 2 000. the iraqi christian population has declined fourfold in 12 years. christians are clearly the most persecuted and devastated religious group in the world. last year can be seen as a year of spillover, in which a trend of dominating intolerance has become central. we have to face this intolerant racism which refuses to co-exist and whose acts need finally to be qualified not only as terrorist deeds, but as crimes against humanity and, on several occasions, as genocide. what has to be done? first, we must actively mainstream freedom of religion in relations with third countries and, through eu member states and the un, refer crimes against christian and other religious minorities to the international criminal court. second, eu foreign policy needs a crucial change of attitude. we need to understand that safeguarding freedom of religion in real terms brings about an added value because freedom of religion in action is a powerful contribution to neutralising extremism. third, eu foreign policy in the middle east should stress above all religious equality. this will pave the way to a solution in which the eu is interested. return home the masses... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the activation of the mutual defence clause by france has given us an opportunity, and also an obligation, to define its purpose and benefits. the mutual assistance clause gives us a singular opportunity to establish the grounds for a strong and sustainable european defence union, to be ready to face the security threats and challenges. so far, it has been interpreted as a bilateral obligation for states to help the one that needs it. however, we must make sure that the correct action plan is put in place so that everybody understands their obligations when a state decides to invoke this article. a state in need must be able to get comprehensive help very fast from all member states. time is of the essence in these cases. we must also keep in mind that this is not a substitute for nato article 5, which has the task of coordinated response to a threat against one member state. the new paradigm we are facing with increasing terrorist attacks forces us to deal with many aspects that have so far either been left unnoticed or simply ignored. the schengen system is getting its share right now, with states closing their borders and threatening to demolish the free movement principle that the eu is built upon. europe’s internal security must be strengthened and intelligence information shared to fight terrorists and avert terrorist plots. for the intelligence network to be fully functioning and operative we should consider creating a european intelligence agency, or at least enable europol to have more competences to be able to implement, de facto, a transversal intelligence network within the member states. a proper legal framework to constrain and control arms and ammunitions on the eu market must also be established, as well as tightened export rules.
mr president, the challenge presented by islamist terrorists is a shared programme for every eu member state and every citizen. that is why it calls for solidarity and mutual assistance. the paris attacks and the french invoking 42(7) can be seen as a wake-up call or catalyst for conducting more active and much more coordinated security and defence policies. the point is now to discover and exhaust all security related potential involved in the treaty on the european union. the fact is that this potential is still more on a theoretical level. the question is also whether article 222 tfeu should be used in parallel to 42(7), because this would allow us to put all relevant eu means at the disposal of the victims. there is an urgent need to strengthen eu cooperation with nato to make both sides’ respective security and defence arrangements compatible, especially in cases of armed aggression on the territory of a member state. a last practical conclusion: to efficiently use the eu existing capacities, the eu needs a permanent syrian military headquarters, at both strategic and operational levels. it needs a centre which has to deal with contingency plans.
in writing. - i did. the aim of the agreement is to deepen economic and trade relations between the eu and kosovo.
in writing. - i did. a commission was formed to investigate recent car emissions manipulation.
in writing. ‒ ukraine, georgia and moldova are facing the same challenges today as estonia did in the 1990s. we, too, had to build a modern rule of law, root out corruption and establish an open society. estonia was successful for two reasons. first, we kept the courage and the will to make radical decisions. second, we had enough supporters outside estonia to help us with advice and strength. change requires political will or popular support. without it, the help we offer is of little use. in concluding the association agreements, we recognise the efforts of ukraine, georgia and moldova. more importantly, we show that we are ready to support the implementation of these reforms. believe me, it's important when you're making a hard effort.
in writing. - i did. given the way russia is pressing eu cooperation with the eastern partnership countries, it is crucial that eu countries that have not yet ratified the association agreements do so as soon as possible. for georgia and ukraine, the visa waiver should be moved forward swiftly. the political crisis in moldova is a cause for concern and it is hoped that a way can be found to resolve the situation without jeopardising the country's economy and progress on reforms.
in writing. - i did. the practical implementation of the mutual protection clause must be swift and effective in order to benefit the requesting state. the fight against terrorism requires the strengthening of europol's work and information exchange, and the creation of a european intelligence agency, if necessary. the schengen system must be strengthened, but we must not forget that the free movement of people within the european union is one of the eu's fundamental freedoms. there is a need to strengthen controls at the external border, to establish a proper legal framework for the arms trade, to do more to integrate people into society and to contribute to education.
in writing. - i did. the un human rights council has an important role to play in protecting human rights and drawing attention to human rights violations on a global scale. the resolution draws attention to almost all the challenges we face, such as migration, the problem of harassment of human rights defenders, the abolition of the death penalty, the protection of freedom of religion, etc.
in writing. - i did. the report analyses the petitions submitted in 2014 and discusses what could be done better. it is important to encourage dialogue between different levels of government and civil society and representative and participatory democracy. the committee on petitions is an important tool made available to citizens to better participate in the european democratic process. it promotes debate and informs and supports eu citizens on their rights. the committee on petitions wants to offer citizens direct contact with the institutions and to ensure that citizens' specific concerns are heard.
in writing. ‒ the right to petition is one of the few tools our citizens have to bring violations of european law to our attention. it is therefore of particular importance that petitions are handled as fast as possible. a failure to respond in time can result in more injury incurred on the person, especially in cases of violations of fundamental rights and civil liberties. time is even more of the essence in situations where children are involved: forced adoption, parental child abduction, closed adoption or custodial problems need to be dealt with instantly. discriminatory treatment by social services towards parents with a migrant or minority background which results in forced adoption is not uncommon in the european union. at the moment, cases of emergency are handled in a special way; however, this does not guarantee that the petition will be handled without delay. the reality is that the secretariat of the committee on petitions does not have the resources it needs to ensure a timely response.
author the green group put forward proposals for the resolution under discussion today a year ago, but other groups did not have to give the necessary support. better late than never. and hopefully our decision will support both the european external action service and the national governments in putting an end to this incident. the greens were the only ones who didn't start from the beginning to link the seaman guard ohio case to the italian marines case, convinced that in the end, linking different cases doesn't help anyone, but rather creates more problems. i am glad that the estonian meps in the epp and alde groups have finally understood this fact. and i would like to thank in particular my italian colleagues lara comit, massimo castaldot and antonio panzer, who understood and took account of the greens' positions. i assure you that they, in turn, can count on my support if the italian navy's problem is brought before parliament. and i also thank the indian delegation leader, geoffrey van orden, who has been very active in his work to find a solution to the problem, and nirj devat for his help in getting information from india. for the above reasons, the greens did not join the compromise resolution but asked to leave their own text, which is free from unnecessary praise of the uniqueness of the indian judiciary (these phrases are unfortunately in the joint resolution), for the vote. we are not in the diplomatic service here in parliament, where in certain cases polite phrases and flattery are appropriate, our resolutions must state the facts, otherwise they will not have the desired effect. as for point two of the joint resolution, it's just funny. india is a country of 1.2 billion people, estonia is 1.2 million people. and there is no way our 14 ship's guards could pose a threat to a country this big. in terms of the exchange of prisoners, this would mean that estonia would have to arrest 14 000 indian citizens. i would therefore ask my colleagues to support the text which will be put to the vote first, which is an old and well-considered text which could have a positive impact on resolving the situation. and i would also invite you to think that the british and estonian guards are people whose release and return home are much more important than one or the other text.
author.– mr president, first of all, i would to like to thank my colleague, mr van orden for his constructive and balanced attitude to preparing the text of this resolution. it was not easy, it was complicated, but we have reached this stage. i would also like to express my sympathy to two italian seamen who are in a similar situation. most of our italian colleagues have insisted that their case should be separated from today’s discussion, but our sympathy and solidarity go to our italian colleagues as well. this is about the fate and future of 20 eu citizens – 14 estonians and 6 british – who were engaged in anti-piracy operations and whose ship was detained, as my colleague mr van orden mentioned, as long ago as october 2013. what is interesting is that they were not accused of robbery, armed attacks or illegal trade. twenty eu citizens have been accused of entering indian waters, having arms on board – which is natural for men engaged in anti-piracy operations – and buying gasoline from an unofficial source. that is all. i think it would be fair to assume that clearing up such accusations could have taken a few months. instead, our co-citizens have waited nearly two and a half years, having been cleared from accusations by one indian court and due to be sentenced this month by another court to five years’ imprisonment. we are not here today to question india’s sovereignty or legal system, but this is a gesture of goodwill, in an atmosphere of mutual friendship and sympathy, to relieve the desperate situation of 20 men who have spent nearly two and a half years away from their families. i do not think standing up for the fundamental rights of eu citizens is anything extraordinary. it is a sacred right and the duty of members of parliament to voice the tragedies and concerns of our fellow citizens. supporting and protecting our citizens should never become dependent on diplomatic schedules or timetables.
author.– mr president, 14 estonian and six british citizens, eu citizens, have been caught in an unfortunate situation in india for more than two years now. after being cleared of all charges in 2014, an appeal was lodged against that decision. last week, in a sudden turn of events, the men were sentenced to five years rigorous imprisonment, effective immediately. a shock to everybody. the point of this resolution is to draw the attention of india, as well as the eu, to this matter, so that a positive solution to this case can be found. we understand india’s concerns and sensitivities. but we ask india to understand our point of view. the men were engaged in anti-piracy duties, and on-board protection teams are currently the only effective measure against piracy. they were simply doing their job and are now facing imprisonment, being deprived of their freedom and kept far from their families. we are simply asking india to help us get our men home.
on behalf of the s&d group. thank you, mr president, commissioner, colleagues. i am really pleased that all the groups have unanimously decided today to show solidarity with these seamen, whose fate is of great concern to all estonians at the moment, as is the fate of not only estonian citizens but also the citizens of italy and the united kingdom. we talk a lot about solidarity, we talk about solidarity between the members of the european union, we talk about solidarity in big things, but solidarity is only credible if it is also true at the most concrete level - at the level of each individual! this decision we are making today, it is actually very much symbolic. it shows that every citizen of the european union can believe in the european union as a solidarity, in the protection of the european union, and in the equality and equal worth of protection of the european union for every citizen of the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. difficulties what seafarers in estonia and other countries have had to face makes it clear that every european can find himself in such a difficult situation in a developing country. we like to call india the world's largest democracy, but we must not forget that the mere existence of democratic procedures does not guarantee the observance of human rights, nor, alas, the fairness of the judicial process. i do not wish to give an assessment of the indian court's right to apply these local laws, but to point out that under international law the proceedings have been too long. at the same time, the living conditions of seafarers in estonia and other countries were very difficult. at the same time, seafarers were virtually in debt, without the right to work, and this put a great strain on their families' financial resources. the commission has also taken the view that the legal framework for the protection of personal data should be strengthened, in particular by the introduction of a new legal framework for the protection of personal data. so we probably need to understand that signal as well and do everything we can to make our consular assistance more accessible. thank you!
thank you! in principle, we could talk about north korea at every plenary session under the heading of human rights violations, and have done so for years, which shows that this is an extremely complex problem, of course, first and foremost for the people of north korea itself, but the signs are that this threat is becoming increasingly serious for the surrounding countries as well. unfortunately, the lessons of the past few years have shown that the world has missed a number of problems in the sense that if the right time had come, a greater crisis could have been avoided. i'm afraid that the way to go with north korea is exactly the same, that there's talk, there's talk, but those who could put real pressure on north korea are the ones who are modest. i am thinking primarily of china, and to some extent russia. of course, the european union and the rest of the world must learn from the mistakes and failures of recent years and not allow the same disaster to happen to north korea, which is already more difficult to deal with in the aftermath.
in writing. - i did. this is a codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. - i did. ratification of the protocol is important to better protect human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. the protocol provides for stricter emission limits for certain major sources of fixed pollution and a more flexible transitional regime.
in writing. - i did. the ratification of the amendments to the protocol is important to better protect human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates the requirements for several substances and limits for emissions of polychlorinated dibenzodioxins and polychlorinated dibenzofurans (pcdd/pcdfs) from different sources, and adds polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) to the list of substances subject to annual emission limits and reporting obligations. in order to facilitate the ratification of the protocol by the tpps, the protocol provides for flexible deadlines for the application of emission limit values, the adoption of best available techniques and the selection of the annual total emission reference year.
in writing. - i did. cooperation between eurojust and ukraine is necessary to strengthen the fight against international crime, in particular terrorism and organised crime, and to enhance judicial cooperation in europe.
in writing. ‒ cooperation between eurojust and ukraine shall reinforce the fight against organised crime, terrorism, and transnational crime.
in writing. - i did. cooperation between eurojust and montenegro is necessary to strengthen the fight against international crime, in particular terrorism and organised crime, and to enhance judicial cooperation in europe.
in writing. ‒ cooperation between eurojust and montenegro shall reinforce the fight against organised crime, terrorism, and transnational crime.
in writing. - i did. undocumented work has a number of negative consequences, including reduced taxes, unfair competition between companies, worse working conditions, lower pension rights and worse access to healthcare. while the problems arising from undeclared work are largely a matter for member states to deal with themselves, they also have cross-border implications. in order to enhance the cooperation between the authorities dealing with this issue in the member states, but also at eu level, it is considered necessary to create a platform or mechanism at eu level to address this problem. i believe it is important, among other things, that solutions take into account the fact that women are still under-employed in the european labour market and that efforts should be made to reduce the gaps between women and men in terms of participation in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ according to reliable estimates, in 2015 the average size of the shadow economy of the 28 eu countries was about 18% of gdp. it was much higher in some eastern and southern-european countries. for instance, in my native estonia it was equal to 26%. importantly, no eu economy is absolutely or almost free from this phenomenon. in the eu undeclared work may have an important cross-border component and therefore it may even compromise the fundamental right to free movement. i believe that the new european platform is capable to address these complex problems. however, efficiency of the platform will depend on the member states, on their ability to be proactively engaged. participation in the work of the platform should not depend on decision of national authorities. therefore, this participation was made obligatory.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. ensuring the sustainability of the european biodiversity is a promise we have to make for the future generations. preserving biodiversity in tensely populated area such as the eu requires efforts from all sides, from politicians on all levels, to companies, to agricultural and forestry sectors to individuals. current existing legislation, the birds and habitats directives, need to be better implemented. achieving the 2020 targets of the eu biodiversity strategy should be one of the political priorities. it is important to underline that restoring, preserving and enhancing ecosystems related to agriculture and forestry, including in natura 2000 areas, is highlighted as one of the six key priorities for rural development. in order to generate synergies and engage all sectors in achieving those targets, one of the crucial issues is to boost innovation and especially invest into ecological engineering.
in writing. - i did. biodiversity is vital to human health, well-being and the economy and is under pressure worldwide and in europe. because of human activity, species are dying out too fast. the eu has put forward a number of strategies to conserve biodiversity. the 2010 targets were not met and the current interim report shows that the 2020 targets are not even halfway there. therefore, serious efforts must be made to attain the agreed objectives. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation. we need to link nature more closely with society, create sustainable economic growth and integrate biodiversity protection into other policies.
in writing. – as all well know, it is crucial that we tackle the refugee crisis at its origins in order to manage this inflow in the long term. and to do this we must look beyond our unpredictable neighbour, turkey. the kurdish forces, particularly the peshmerga in iraq, have been central to the struggle against islamic state, meanwhile they have conceived and sustained a stable territory which has yet to be recognised as a nation in its own right. it is impossible for us to ignore the legitimacy and importance of the kurds as pro-western political actors in this conflict-ridden region. therefore it is essential that we, the european union, vigorously support them in their efforts to extinguish islamic state and defend democracy.
madam president, i also join with all those who expressed condolences to the victims of this very tragic case. we all understand that this tragic case shows that the regulation, which was adopted as far back as april 2014, should be implemented as soon as possible. it should maybe also be amended because, as i understand it, the regulation makes no provision for these first phase trials. now we talk about the database and expect that it will help. when we look at the archives we see that in september 2014 the commission said that all the preparations would be ready and work on the database would start in december 2014. so why is it taking so long? i ask you to give us a bit more information about the database: what it will contain, accessibility, but also the reasons why it is all taking so long.
mr president, three points. firstly, the efficient protection of the eu external border is first of all dependent on the responsibility of the member states coming forward with the financing they have committed themselves to. we also need to be prepared to defend our eastern border. secondly, on the uk: europe should concentrate on positive complementarity, trying to separate crucial issues from domestic policy debates. i fully agree with our british friends that the eu should become truly competitive to finally complete the single market and conduct radical deregulation. thirdly, my special message to the dutch presidency is to see the data protection package as a matter of urgency and to decide about it by march, so that it can be adopted by parliament in april. in fact, any delay means postponing the chances of developing the single digital market as well as providing our citizens with reliable protection. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. - i did. the adoption of the proposed regulation is necessary to enforce the obligations arising from the moldova agreement and to protect union producers where appropriate.
in writing. - i did. the adoption of the proposed regulation is necessary in order to enforce the obligations of georgia under the anti-circumvention provisions of the agreement and to protect, where appropriate, european union producers.
in writing. - i did. the marrakesh agreement is about facilitating access to published works for visually impaired and print disabled people. it is regrettable that seven member states of the european union have not yet ratified the treaty. given the fact that only 5% of books published in developed countries and less than 1% of books published in developing countries are produced in a format suitable for visually impaired persons, it is important that those member states still ratify the marrakesh treaty as soon as possible in order for it to enter into force.
in writing. ‒ no, because it does not consider it necessary to decide on the placing on the market of each gmo product separately. a comprehensive approach is needed and the whole regulatory framework for gmo products should be reviewed.
in writing. ‒ no, because it does not consider it necessary to decide on the placing on the market of each gmo product separately. a comprehensive approach is needed and the whole regulatory framework for gmo products should be reviewed.
in writing. ‒ no, because it does not consider it necessary to decide on the placing on the market of each gmo product separately. a comprehensive approach is needed and the whole regulatory framework for gmo products should be reviewed.
in writing. - i did. the car industry is a major source of environmental pollution, so the sector must take responsibility for human health. the commission proposal provides for more flexibility in the criteria for measuring the emission limit values for the automotive industry. these were previously agreed in 2007 and the commission wants to relax the criteria, but this is unfair to companies that already comply with the rules that will come into force in 2017. nor may concessions continue in the form of slippage from the emission limit.
in writing. - i did. in the process of negotiating the tsp, the european parliament has made proposals to the commission to supplement the agreement. the aim is to reach an agreement that is in the interests of both european businesses and consumers.
in writing. - i did. the commission must formulate a strategic and complementary plan to help address the disparities between member states in gender equality issues. the strategy proposed also addresses, inter alia, the condemnation of violence against women and the reduction of the gender pay gap.
mr president, libya is our neighbouring country. the situation is extremely dramatic because a political vacuum is being exploited by daesh and other extremist forces, and their growing presence and influence is now spilling over to neighbouring countries like tunisia, egypt, the sahel and even europe. on the coast of the mediterranean, there are estimated to be about 3 000 daesh fighters who are also targeting libyan oil fields and refineries. today the eu should concentrate all political and humanitarian efforts on supporting the implementation of last december’s political agreement and the government of national unity, but in case this fails, we should consider another alternative – military intervention by a un-backed international force just to prevent daesh taking over libya, which is our neighbour.
in writing. a politically stable libya is necessary not only for libya itself, but for the wider region and for europe. the key is to reach agreement between all parties, and then we can move on to help with nation building, security, peacekeeping, etc. libya also plays an important role in the current migration crisis. also of concern is the increase in the presence of daesh by days. we have to fight this now.
madam president, for almost 17 years the economic and democratic development of a country which is rich in natural resources has been paralysed by harsh ideological and political control and government intervention. the result has been what it always is: the centralised exercise of so-called socialism by one-party rule ends in economic bankruptcy, social misery, massive human rights violations, corruption and muzzling of the free press. only last year the economy shrank by 10% and inflation galloped up by 700%. these are devastating figures for the political leadership. but even more, less than two years ago, 43 citizens were killed by the government forces and more than 3 000 arrested, including leopoldo lópez and many others, who are still imprisoned. there was a quest for change and justice only two months ago, but the problem is that we are worried that president maduro is not prepared to share power. yes, we need national dialogue to overcome the crisis, but first of all venezuela needs genuine respect for human rights. that is the criterion to overcome the crisis.
on behalf of the alde group. the reason why russia is harassing crimean tatars or restricting their freedom of speech is because they are very critical of the authorities. when the referendum was held in ukraine, they were the most active in the streets protesting against the referendum. in the two years since the annexation of crimea, the situation of the crimean tatars has sharply deteriorated. their tv channel was closed, their schools can no longer teach in tatar, and the jobs are such that if you don't speak russian and don't have this nationality, you can't get a job. it's just part of a list of how they're being bullied. in fact, persecution is not only a violation of human rights but also a threat to the preservation of cultural heritage. therefore, it is russia's duty to ensure that the crimean tatars can live in their historical homeland with dignity and preserve their cultural heritage.
author.– madam president, last january thousands protested in hong kong to voice their concern about the disappearance of five independent local publishers and booksellers who are said to have been taken to mainland china against their own will, and we certainly share the grave concern of many thousands of hong kong citizens about their whereabouts and wellbeing. hong kong has internal autonomy, a framework of the system ‘one country, two systems’, which provides for free speech and citizens’ liberties. so we would like to remind the hong kong authorities that the independence of book editors, journalists and bloggers must be safeguarded, and we call for an immediate end to human rights violations and political intimidation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. persecutions on religious grounds have dramatically increased. in 2015 at least 7 100 christians were murdered purely because of their belief. two years ago this number was 2 100. 2 400 christian churches were demolished or closed. the iraqi christian population has declined in 12 years by a factor of 4 – from 1.3 million to 300 000. aleppo had a 400 000 christian population 5 years ago - now ca. 6 000 are left. christians are clearly the most persecuted and devastated religious group in the world. we notice these disastrous figures, but are we drawing conclusions? 2015 can be seen as a spill-over year: spill-over of systematic violence against freedom of belief. the central development has been the domination of intolerance – refusal to co-exist, not to speak of equal co-existence. today we face the grim reality that in a few years’ time christians will be ousted from the very cradle of christianity, their and our common ancient cultural heritage destroyed. we have to deal with militant, intolerant racism, whose acts need finally to be qualified not only as terrorist deeds but as crimes against humanity and, on some occasions, as genocide.
in writing. the uk is one of the countries with the most loose links to the rest of the eu. it is not in the schengen system or the eurozone, but the problems of terrorism and the economy have not gone away from it either. recent agreements between the uk and the rest of the eu, formulated in the council, give prime minister cameron a reason to publicly support remaining in the eu in the referendum, but the impact of the eu-uk agreement on british public opinion is rather limited. the explicit us support for the uk remaining in the eu and the general uncertainty about the future become more important. because there can be no answers to how the uk can deal with security concerns, growth opportunities and many other important things outside the eu. furthermore, if the leaveers remain, the uk itself could be threatened by disintegration if scotland then rapidly holds a new independence referendum, in which case the leaveers will be in the majority.
in writing. - i did. a uniform procedure for the service of documents in cross-border relations with third countries is in the interest of the union as a whole and of the two member states concerned.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to improve international tax cooperation.
in writing. - i did. the accession follows the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. - i did. this is a proposal to reform eures in order to increase the number of partners providing mobility services and to foster closer cooperation between the public, private and educational sectors.
in writing. - i did. the eu has also provided financial support to the tunisian authorities in the form of grants and loans. given that olive oil is tunisia's main agricultural export, the short-term eu action is reasonable.
in writing. - i did. people who have lost their jobs as a result of the developments affecting the glass industry in belgium, including many young people, need to be supported so that they can retrain and find work again if necessary.
in writing. - no, he didn't. the recovery of the economic environment in europe requires structural reforms, the competitiveness of the economy and a credible environment that attracts investment. the current report, however, recommends focusing on increasing public spending rather than on modernising the economy or reforming the labour market.
in writing. - no, he didn't. the employment and social situation in europe has improved slowly, but more action is still needed to reduce labour market rigidity and to modernise social protection and pension systems.
in writing. - i did. the greater common market is of vital importance to europe in order to promote economic growth and to accelerate job creation.
in writing. - i did. the fta could contribute to tunisia's stability, strengthen democracy and revitalise the country's economy, in addition to the trade dimension.
in writing. - i did. this is an overview of the european ombudsman's activities in 2014, the complaints received and the way they were dealt with. given that a fairly high percentage of complaints concerned access to documents of the institutions and a lack of openness, this is clearly an area that needs to be addressed more and solutions to achieve greater openness.
in writing. ‒ institutional respect for citizens’ rights is a key element for democracy. the work of the european ombudsman ensures that the rights of european union citizens are respected by the european institutions by answering their concerns and resolving their conflicts. her efforts, however, do not stop there as she increasingly launches investigations on her own initiative and advocates for greater transparency. not unlike the committee of petitions, the european ombudsman is bringing the european union closer to its citizens and therefore her efforts must be supported. the amount of work done by the european ombudsman is astonishing, especially bearing the limited budget in mind. as the rights of european citizens are at stake here, we have not only called for a closer cooperation with the committee on petitions, but also for an increase in the budget.
in writing. - i did. the report expects the euro area to recover slightly from the recession, unemployment to decline and the fiscal outlook to improve. however, it is important to continue to work towards strengthening the economy, including increasing access to finance for smes and keeping inflation below or close to 2%.
in writing. - i did. it is important for european economic growth to strengthen ties and establish free trade with australia and new zealand, which are very important countries in the asia-pacific region.
in writing. - i did. harmonised identification and registration requirements for pet animals would reduce the extent of document fraud and illegal trade in animals.
in writing. - i did. the eu must do more to bring a resolution to the violent conflict in yemen and end the current catastrophic humanitarian situation. the international dimension must also be enhanced.
in writing. ‒ the situation in yemen has deteriorated from a chaos of civil war to a complete humanitarian catastrophe. the saudi-led military intervention and its use of violence took the lives of civilians and continues to do so every day. because of this imminent threat to the population, and also to the region, it is necessary to impose an eu arms embargo against saudi-arabia. the allegations of breaches of international law by the saudi-led military intervention are serious. therefore, member states who are engaged in exports of military technology and equipment are in breach of the rules established by the council on this topic. only an embargo will send a signal which reflects our condemnation of the practices of the saudi-led military in yemen.
in writing.– i would have liked for the report to be more ambitious on the financial transparency aspect. due to the complex nature of port organisation, especially of the larger ports, the transparency rules need to be strict on paper in order to achieve the desired effect in practice. even in relatively small ports, such as the port of tallinn, there are cases of corruption in which the political parties in power benefit from the corruption, and yet remain relatively insulated since their tool of choice is exercising control over the state-owned company. if, due to lack of transparency, these kinds of activities take a while to be discovered in small ports such as tallinn, we can only imagine what the situation in larger ports could be. ceterum censeo, parteipoliitikute juhtiv osalus riigiettevõtete nõukogudes on tarvis kogu euroopas lõpetada ning nad tuleks asendada ekspertide seast leitavate juhtidega.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, in the time it took to bring this resolution to plenary we also adopted the digital single market report, where we were quite clear what we want to see regarding big data. firstly, parliament quite clearly asked for the business environment for growth and innovation in the data-driven economy to be improved, and secondly, we also called on the commission in the digital single market report to carry out a broad and transparent review of big data. so the aim is not to have another study but to review what needs to be done in order to improve the conditions for growth and innovation, and to understand and address the potential challenges so that we can encourage take up, because what is crucial is to create scale in europe as this is the only way to benefit from big data the most. there are two issues regarding big data. one is data protection, and the other is skills, so firstly, data protection. i hope that now that the data protection framework is soon to be adopted the commission will come forward with the free flow of data initiative because restrictions on the flow of data go against the single market, but also the purpose of data- driven technologies. and second, i think it is important that we do not talk about personal data because big data is not about personalised data, but data in a big format that makes companies able to draw conclusions from it. as the vice—president pointed out, it is about open public data and also machine-generated data. secondly i wanted to talk about skills. if big data is there but there is nobody to use it because nobody knows how, and no businesses know how to apply these things, then there is just no use. we therefore await the key recommendations in the e-skills strategy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– as the european economy is based on small and medium—sized enterprises, it is very important to take this into account. also, when we try to discuss the regulations and only keep in mind the big companies, we actually design regulations that are fit for them and not fit for the small ones. so i think we have to keep this in mind all the time, and i hope that the commission will do that.
mr. chairman of the board! i take this opportunity to speak in estonian, since the percentage of estonian speakers in the hall is exceptionally high. i would like to thank the commission for providing a very good statistical overview of how the development of the data economy is progressing. there is a special index of the digital economy and society, which i think is very telling. this is great, but the picture that emerges from this is not great, because it shows the extreme inequality in europe between different countries. if we compare the countries of northern europe on the one hand, and on the other hand, for example, italy, greece, bulgaria, etc., the differences in practical data and computer skills are mountainous. my question arises from the fact that education, i.e. the development of all the necessary skills, is actually organised by the member states. countries where development is currently slow also seem to be unable to foresee what to do to accelerate development. if this continues, we will not be able to achieve the objectives we have set for europe. i therefore wonder how the commission intends to bridge this gap and achieve the convergence of skills and knowledge that will enable the data economy to be a guarantor of success across europe.
in writing. - no, he didn't. the report makes the link between animal health and public health for the first time, which is an important step forward, and also addresses emerging and currently spreading diseases and the importance of responsible veterinary compliance, so the legislative changes made so far are sufficient.
in writing. - i did. one of the most important aspects of the negotiations for estonia was the respect of the historical budgetary utilization criterion, which will remain in force for the allocation of the milk budget and will provide estonia with a slightly larger budget than before. the choice of eligible products (in addition to milk, yoghurt, etc.) and the possibility of taking into account local circumstances may also be considered appropriate. the establishment of fixed budgetary percentages for educational and complementary measures and the preparation of national strategies for six years are also positive.
in writing. - i did. in order to make the trans-european transport network more efficient, a common framework is needed to attract investment and foster innovation in port services.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to establish a uniform legal framework for the development, compilation and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and housing price indices at union, national and regional level. the tthi is a measure of inflation and is used, inter alia, as a valuable input for deflating economic values such as wages, rents and interest rates, and is therefore the basis for economic and monetary policy decisions. it is therefore important that those statistical data are objective, impartial and comparable across member states and product categories.
in writing. - i did. the commission's report is important to ensure the transparency of the eu and to prevent corruption in the member states.
in writing. - i did. progress towards gender equality in all eu policies has been very slow, and gender equality needs to be better ensured in the work of the european parliament.
in writing. - i did. member states should pay attention to the creation of a safe and non-discriminatory environment for female refugees and asylum seekers, as women are more likely to be victims of violence.
in writing.– 13 million people in need of humanitarian aid, 5 million of them children, more than 250 000 people killed, more than 4 million refugees and 9 million idps. in 2015, msf medical facilities faced 94 aerial and shelling attacks. msf also has recorded 74 mass casualty incidents, noting the increase from october last year. observers state that all forces opposed to assad are indiscriminately attacked, without making a difference between civilians and militants. both governments also use cluster bombs, confirmed by numerous reports on the ground. russia is not a solution: siding with assad has made it a contributor to one of the biggest humanitarian catastrophes since wwii. one should not forget that russia’s strategic aim is destabilising europe and nato. further, it lies within the responsibility of the eu not only to receive refugees, but also to create conditions in syria, in the form of safe areas where people could live until they could return to their homes. also, the eu and other states need to adequately finance the world food programme, which supports syrian refugees in neighbouring states.
mr president, monday’s summit was the best solution among poor options. the first thing is to get smuggler-controlled flows of migrants under control and to make sure who is who and also to neutralise the inhuman business of smugglers, who often cooperate with terrorists. but that is not enough. i encourage the council to also concentrate on the establishment of safe areas in syria. this was a welcome message presented by the minister today – or, a hint, i would say. secondly, the efficient protection of the eu’s external borders should not only remain a priority, but should be achieved in real terms. this is about money and cooperation. in the same way, i think we should prepare for the joint protection of the eu’s north-eastern borders. in fact there are millions of illegal residents in russia, as the finnish example has warned us. russia could make an attempt to destabilise the eu from an unexpected direction. thirdly, regarding the data protection package, the minister’s predecessor promised it by december and fulfilled that promise. we expect no dragging of feet under the dutch presidency to formally finalise it. all practical implementation measures related to the implementation of the single digital market will be delayed over the summer if the council will not take a decision. even worse, this house – as we saw on monday – is blocked in adopting the urgently needed pnr decision, because some groups link it with finalising the data protection package. please, council, hurry up.
in writing. meetings and consultations between turkey and the eu are important, especially in view of the current migration crisis. at the same time, it is clear that the eu must also take responsibility for what happens at its borders. the most important thing is to create an effective, well-equipped and well-manned eu border guard. the eu must be able to receive and process asylum applications quickly and securely. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement and the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement. the eu must, of course, take a more active stance on russia's actions in syria and find ways to contribute to ending the conflict in syria as quickly as possible and allowing people to return to their homeland to rebuild their lives after the bombing.
in writing. - i did. the report regulates the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels in order to reduce harmful air pollution. this is a codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. - i did. this is a codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. - i did. the exchange of financial account data facilitates international tax cooperation, which is important to prevent tax fraud. this agreement replaces the previous agreement of 2004.
in writing. ‒ i supported the appointment of the executive director to ensure the consistent management of the organisation.
in writing. - i did. the report aims to strengthen the procedural rights of children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings and to ensure uniform minimum standards that take into account the special needs of children. the european commission estimates that over one million children are involved in criminal proceedings each year, i.e. 12% of all participants in criminal proceedings are children. in addition to the figures, there are also major differences between member states in the treatment of children involved in criminal proceedings. studies carried out at european level show that, at present, the rights of children are not sufficiently protected in the union at the various stages of the procedure.
in writing. - i did. the eu budget for 2017 places the economic recovery of the member states and the refugee crisis as the top priorities and highlights the importance of revising the mff (2014 to 2020) in the face of unforeseen crises.
in writing. - i did. the aim of the agreement is to streamline the interinstitutional legislative process in order to secure the eu's political objectives and avoid excessive regulation and administrative burdens for both citizens and businesses.
in writing. - i remained neutral. the previous pmi agreement is coming to an end and, in order to combat illicit tobacco trade, it is necessary to extend the agreement until more active participation in the who framework convention on tobacco control is achieved. however, the resolution left out points in favour of the tobacco companies' activities which are not reasonable and do not help the eu to fight the smuggling of tobacco products.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, let me first of all reiterate the council’s commitment to the eu accession process of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, although the critical situation in the country is a serious cause for concern. in 2015 the former yugoslav republic of macedonia faced one of its most severe political crises, which was marked by a divisive political culture, backsliding on freedom of expression and judicial independence, as well as further erosion of trust in public institutions. it is now essential to overcome this crisis and to ensure that these shortcomings will be addressed decisively. the june-july pržino political agreement reached among the political leaders, as well as the urgent reform priorities which have been issued by the commission, provide the blueprint for what needs to be done. we have taken good note of the decision to postpone the early parliamentary elections to 5 june, given that necessary conditions for holding credible elections on 24 april were not in place. it will now be essential for all political actors to live up to their responsibility and to take the necessary measures, including the election—related media reform. a constructive and inclusive political dialogue within the country will be crucial in order to move forward. obviously the holding of credible elections in which all citizens and parties freely participate is a first major step towards ending the ongoing political crisis. we are closely monitoring this process in cooperation with the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights. let me also commend the close cooperation between the eu actors, necessary to pave the way out of the country’s political crisis. i want to mention in particular commissioner hahn’s substantive engagement and to thank him very much, and to thank as well the three members of this house, mr vajgl, mr howitt and mr kukan. sustainable reforms to address systematic values in the areas of the rule of law, public administration, protection of fundamental rights and media freedom, as well as the fight against corruption, continue to remain central for the country’s path towards the eu. let me also reiterate the importance of an independent investigation of all the allegations brought to the fore by the wiretapping affair. the special prosecutor and the parliamentary committee of inquiry need to be supported in their work. equally, i want to repeat the council’s call for the kumanovo events of may 2015 to be fully investigated in an objective and transparent manner. on migration let me commend the former yugoslav republic of macedonia for its efforts in addressing the refugee and migration crisis last year. for some weeks now several unilateral decisions and regional coordinated responses have been put in place along the western balkan route. on 18 february the european council was very clear that only through concerted action can we address the challenge in a proper manner. there is no alternative to a comprehensive european solution. and yes, it is very important that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, as our neighbouring and candidate country, plays its part in this process. the eu is providing – and will continue to provide – significant support to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in order to strengthen border controls and to improve border and asylum management. the same goes for several member states which do it on a bilateral level. finally, let me underline that good neighbourly relations, including a negotiated and mutually accepted solution to the name issue under the auspices of the un, remain central for the stability of the region. the accession process of the country is at a critical juncture. the commission has stated its readiness to extend its recommendation to open accession negotiations. these shall, however, be conditional on the continued implementation of the june—july political agreement and on substantial progress in the implementation of the urgent reform priorities. the council will refer to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia after its elections. right now i strongly believe that the political leaders have the responsibility to take the necessary steps and put their country back onto the euro-atlantic path.
member of the commission.– mr president, first of all i would like to thank the minister for her friendly words concerning our work. i would also like to say thanks once again to three members of your parliament – mr vajgl, mr kukan and mr howitt – for their unceasing work on and with this country and its key players in order to facilitate, together with us, a political agreement last summer. it was – and is – crucial and essential that we are helping the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to address the political challenge they are facing and that we are keeping the political agreement alive in the months afterwards. the three meps paid a visit only two weeks ago, following a letter from the eu delegation and the us ambassador, to the prime minister, presenting our joint view that the conditions for organising credible elections on 24 april were not in place. with the eu delegation, your colleagues brokered a deal among the political leaders to postpone the date of the early parliamentary elections from 24 april to 5 june. i would like to stress how important it is that the european parliament has played its role to engage with the country and to help in the democratic process. i hope it will be possible to be present with observers around the election day. i also would like to take this opportunity to thank parliament’s committee on foreign affairs, and rapporteur ivo vajgl in particular, for the resolution which is before you today for adoption. i find it balanced and in line with the main findings of our 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. as you all know, the reporting period was very challenging for the country. i am convinced, however, that our report struck the right balance. on the one hand, we acknowledged that the country has a good level of preparation in developing a functioning market economy. it also has a relatively good level of alignment with the acquis. this means that the right laws and strategies are more or less in place. the issue, as in all these countries, is the application and implementation, as well as the will to take if necessary hard decisions. on the other hand, the country has faced the most severe political crisis in years. the parliament was boycotted by the main opposition party for more than a year. the situation deteriorated further with the publication of intercepted conversations which suggests that the system has been undermined by political interference and high-level corruption. in order to overcome this political crisis, we adopted a two-track approach. firstly, the political agreement, which was reached by the four political leaders last summer, as mentioned, was a decisive step forward. some commitments have been met within the agreed deadlines. the main opposition party returned to the parliament and the special prosecutor was appointed in september. i regret that some other deadlines have been met with considerable delay and required active involvement from the european union. in parallel to the political agreement in june last year, we presented a set of urgent reform priorities aiming at addressing underlying rule of law issues. once again, political will is key to progress on these priorities. in our report, we stated that the commission is prepared to extend its recommendation to open accession negotiations with the country conditional on the continued implementation of the june/july political agreement and substantial implementation of the urgent reform priorities. we are monitoring these issues constantly and will report on this in due course. as you rightly pointed out in your resolution, the inter-ethnic situation remains fragile in the country. proactive measures should be undertaken to address inter-ethnic issues and to build greater trust between communities. in this respect, the review of the ohrid framework agreement needs to be completed. good neighbourly relations are also essential for the country. resolving the name issue remains a priority. the country is also on the front line of europe’s unprecedented refugee and migration crisis, and the commission remains committed to continue to help the country in this challenge. i look forward to the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr vajgl, for his constructive and inclusive approach, as well as for his efforts to positively balance a very complex issue. indeed, macedonia has been an eu candidate for 10 years now and it has been considered the most advanced candidate on the basis of its alignment with the acquis. however, the start of official accession negotiations has been blocked for years in the council. this report addresses, first of all, the need to establish stability and working cooperation between different political forces there, because dialogue, mutual respect and also respect for the basic freedoms, including the freedom of the press, are necessary for a credible rule-of-law society. at the same time, the boycott of the parliament by those who have lost elections is certainly not in accordance with a functioning democracy and is damaging to the country. new elections will have a key importance for all of us, and we appeal to all sides to stick to the national kumanovo agreement.
author.– madam president, i would say to commissioner hahn that we are deeply worried about freedom of expression in kazakhstan. the recent signing of the enhanced pca was actually a welcome and mutually beneficial step, but such a relationship must be based on shared values and democratic reforms. this is not lecturing a partner; this is about shared values. vladimir kozlov; journalist seztkazy matayev; bloggers ermek narymbayev, serikzhan mambetalin and bolatbek blylov. there are signals of increasing repression of critical voices. it is especially alarming that just around the signing of the pca last december, criminal cases were launched against independent journalists and editors of the nakanune.kz website, guzyal baidalinova and yuliya kozlova, who were merely accused of spreading false information. i also called for the release of the opposition leader vladimir kozlov, several journalists, such as seztkazy matayev, and bloggers, such as ermek narymbayev, serikzhan mambetalin and bolatbek blylov. even if their names sound like they come from a faraway country, we feel very close to them in a spirit of solidarity. we demand that they be able to exercise their freedom of expression with the dignity of truly free citizens.
author.– madam president, the situation on the freedom of expression in kazakhstan has deteriorated in recent years. independent media outlets, journalists and bloggers frequently suffer arrests and pressure from authorities just for doing their job and exercising their right to voice an opinion. people are even harassed for being active in social media. we call on the kazakhstan authorities to ensure that human rights are respected and that the media and civil society be able to carry out their activities without fear of harassment. eu enhanced relations with kazakhstan are linked to concrete human rights improvements. the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) with the eu must be linked to developments in democracy, rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms in kazakhstan. while i am most delighted that kazakhstan has joined the world trade organization, it is also important that kazakhstan fulfil its international obligations in other spheres and follow the rule of law and guarantee legal certainty for international companies operating in kazakhstan and the protection of their investments.
on behalf of the s&d group. i would like to confirm on behalf of the social democrats that on the one hand the kazakh aspiration to be a partner of the european union is very important and we support it, but on the other hand it further increases our demand that kazakhstan observe and comply with the principles contained in our cooperation agreement. and the current situation here shows a very sharp and growing contradiction. the kazakh authorities are pursuing opposition leaders even after they have been granted political asylum in eu countries, and are using all means to pursue media outlets that have actually gone outside kazakhstan. so we very much hope that in the circumstances where the cooperation agreement with kazakhstan must be approved by the parliaments of all the member states and by us here, we would pay close attention to kazakhstan actually fulfilling these obligations and protecting all those democratic freedoms and fundamental rights which are provided for both in this agreement and, by the way, in the constitution of kazakhstan itself. i therefore strongly support this resolution and also call on all our members to draw attention in their member states to the current situation in kazakhstan and the possibility of improving it through our pressure.
in writing. - i did. the tunisian economy is in difficulty and the eu should support tunisia's political and economic transition with measures that help them.
in writing. - i did. the existence of appropriate legislation and regulations and their simplicity as far as possible is important for the development of veterinary medicinal products. at the same time, more attention should be paid to the fight against antimicrobial resistance. this is an area that needs more attention because it directly affects people.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to decouple the provisions on veterinary medicinal products from those on human medicinal products.
in writing. - i did. to remain competitive, the eu needs to continue to develop the digital domain, invest in the data-driven economy, encourage start-ups and smes, and increase social inclusion.
in writing. - i did. the situation in eritrea remains very bad. the decisions allocate funds to eritrea to be used to meet the development, democracy, good governance and security needs of the eritrean people. the eu delegation must ensure that the money is used accordingly.
in writing. - i did. it is important to maintain the prospect of macedonia joining the eu, but the country has a lot of work to do to achieve this. the eu is also committed to the implementation of the eu's common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the eu's common security and defence policy (csdp).
in writing. - i did. progress has been made in montenegro and the invitation to montenegro to join nato is welcome. however, a number of areas, such as the fight against corruption, poverty reduction and improving the political climate, need to be continuously promoted.
in writing. - i did. the banking union was created to cope with the economic crisis and publishes an annual activity report, which is important for providing an overview of its functioning and effectiveness. the report welcomes the creation of a single supervisory mechanism and a single resolution board and stresses the importance of the banking union for the euro area member states in terms of risk sharing and simultaneous risk reduction.
madam president, on 26 april there will be the thirtieth anniversary of the disaster at the chernobyl nuclear power station in ukraine. among others, some 5 000 people were forcibly sent from estonia to chernobyl for the elimination of the effects of the nuclear disaster. recorded diseases to workers in the chernobyl recovery operations were significant. rates of cancers and other health problems were much higher among recovery workers than in the rest of the population. after estonia regained independence, former recovery workers were entitled to various social benefits, but the regulations changed in 2003. nowadays they are entitled to some benefits only if they are recognised as unlawfully repressed persons. in estonia an oppressed person must have been an estonian citizen at the time of repression. most representatives of ethnic minorities do not meet this criterion. therefore, they cannot obtain benefits. this limitation concerns almost exclusively people of ethnic minority origin, and it leads to indirect ethnic discrimination. indirect discrimination of people suffering from the chernobyl disaster on the grounds of ethnicity or origin should be abolished without delay.
in writing. ‒ the european union is on the threshold of reforms in the area of reception of refugees and migration. the old rules don't apply, changes are necessary. the shape they will take will be decided in the coming weeks. the report rightly speaks of the need for reform. but many of my group, like myself, come from more radical positions. if europe wants to become a major international player and ensure internal stability and security in crisis situations - as it is today - there is no alternative to moving towards federalisation. in other words, we need a european police structure and services with a wide mandate to deal with refugee issues. it is necessary to transfer border control, counter-terrorism and refugee status issues to a transnational (trans-european) level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. my group proposed a compromise to counter the proposal on glyphosates presented by the commission. renewal of the use of glyphosate cannot be allowed without applying the strictest conditions, and it should not be extended to 15 years. i support cutting the time to 7 years – a temporary limited renewal, under strict conditions and with a clear indication that the commission should withdraw their approval if it no longer satisfies the criteria. although the concentrations of glyphosate remain below legal thresholds, it still poses a possible risk to human and animal health and to environment. therefore the decision by the commission to renew the approval of glyphosate in the proposed form is unacceptable. i also welcome the call to prohibit or at least limit the use of glyphosate in private sector and on public ground and to take more co-formulants off the market.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to start by endorsing jan albrecht’s words on thankfulness. we are really very thankful for the tough work we have done together with shadow rapporteurs from all groups, with our secretariat, with our assistants, with the commission and its team and with the council and its team. it has been tough work, and i suppose that half a year ago we were not very optimistic as to the prospects of managing to do the whole data protection package in time and being ready together here now. concerning my specific area, the directive on the data protection in the field of law enforcement or ‘police directive’, as it is called: this is part of the general data protection package which covers the specificities of police work. all elements of police work not directly related to crime investigation or prevention, including public security issues and crimes against public security – in short, ordinary work which is not criminal – belong to the regulation presented by jan albrecht. what is specific in this directive? we see that police work contains more and more international aspects. in the present situation we all have experience on how important it is that police in different member states work together, trust each other and transfer information quickly and smoothly. in order to do that they need common rules and a common framework, and this directive is presenting this common framework. it is important that, even in these times of common insecurity, we do not forget about basic fundamental human rights, and privacy protection is one of those. nor should we forget about non-discrimination and fairness, and this directive also takes that into account – to have a good proper balance to secure personal data and also to give police, in their specific work on criminal investigation, enough space to be effective, quick and also cooperative. what are some of the main innovations for the police? we do not currently have a common framework for data protection or data processing in 28 member states. we had a general directive that we replaced by regulation, but in the police field we did not have anything like that. this is the first regulatory act which will provide police in all member states with their common rules. in this framework, the very important thing is that the general principles of proportionality, legitimacy and purpose-limitation are included in police work. that means that no form of mass surveillance is possible. the collection of data is not possible. retention for an unlimited or unclear period is not possible. another important point is that we foresee the inclusion of data protection professionals in the police institutional setting: specifically, in police work. this will bring everyday concerns about data protection and privacy protection into police work. there will also be quite a strict and strong regime for recording all excesses and all usages of data. all these principles are very important. we will have the opportunity to have more effective police work and provide more security and confidence for citizens that their privacy will be protected.
madam president, the data protection framework that we are about to adopt is what it is, but i think what is important is to stop looking at digital innovation as being in conflict with data protection. those two go hand in hand and should not undermine each other. nobody will win from this conflict and there will only be losers. trust is the key to the digital sector. we understand it and the companies also understand it, so i want businesses to apply these rules in a way that makes people care about their data and also trust them with their data, instead of just clicking ‘yes’ or ‘no’ without thinking. so people need to trust, and in order to entrust their data they need to understand why their data is collected and for what reason it is used. this works for governments as well as private companies in the development of digital services, so the data protection framework needs to be implemented in a pragmatic way – a smart way – so that the authorities engage with businesses to empower users.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to thank all the participants in this very important discussion. i suppose and i am sure that it is not the end of the discussion or even the beginning of the discussion because it is a very complicated package, and i do not think that all of our members have read the full package. it is really complicated technically, but the principle itself is simple. it could be compared to habeas corpus. it is really fundamental legislation about personal data as a part of personal identity. we are not protecting data here; this is not a cybersecurity act: we are protecting privacy. we are protecting the fundamental right of every individual to preserve his or her privacy in the digital ocean, the digital environment. this environment is developing very quickly. nanotechnology is ahead of us. big data is coming. we have to be ready for that. this does not mean that we have to be technologically ahead of technology. we have to be very firm on our principal ground: it is the fundamental right of people to be people – people first, with technology for people. i am sure that we have gone in the right direction. regarding implementation, i want to see very soon from the commission those ideas that we put in the regulation about the european trademark for digital technology – privacy by design – and also ideas about the very simple code for consumers, for people, concerning the risks. we asked the commission to work on that and it will need a very creative approach. we are very much looking forward to that. regarding the directive, the member states also have a lot to do here. it is national legislation but it also concerns the national training of the police, because different police forces have very different cultures. there are member states whose police force has no understanding of(the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question.– ms hohlmeier, i first want to say that i checked pnr against the directive and i have to say that in principle, in spirit, it is in line. but it is not in line in all details, many of which are very important details. i ask you: why was the epp against there being an obligation to inform passengers about their rights, about the collection of information? this was envisaged, but it is not there. why are the functions of the data protection officers limited compared to the directive? and third, why was the epp against automated data sharing, which could be effective using new technology?
member of the commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. madam president, thank you, first of all, for your views and comments. i am now looking forward to tomorrow's vote. let me reiterate that the pnr directive is a key tool in our toolbox to enhance the safety and security of our citizens. the political compromise reached last december manages to find the right balance between security and fundamental rights. concerns have been raised as to whether the directive will sufficiently ensure the exchange of information between member states. i find that the directive now provides for the sharing of all relevant and necessary pnr data. we allow the law-enforcement authorities to judge what needs to be shared, while ensuring that strong data protection safeguards are in place. mrs in t veld submitted a request in march 2014 for access to these documents and she was given access. the commission will of course provide, upon request, all available information on the implementation of the eu co-funded national pnr projects. i hope that parliament will now act quickly to allow the directive to enter into force as soon as possible. once adopted, we need to immediately start its implementation. my commitment is to stand close to the member states, to support and urge them to implement this framework as soon as possible.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i have little to add. let me underline once more how grateful i am for parliament’s support. as i said earlier there is no such thing as a single solution to stop the terrorist threat or organised crime. the pnr proposal does not represent a silver bullet. it is not a magic solution. it is an instrument. surely it will be an important instrument, even if not perfect. it is a european solution, and a european solution is far better than a patchwork of 28 different systems on a national level.
in writing.– the basic need of european citizens is safety and security. this is what our citizens ask from us all especially now, after the tragic terrorist attacks on brussels and paris. pnr is one of the basic security measures that are needed. all competent institutions, starting with europol, have strongly advised to adopt it without delays. epp has strongly supported adoption of pnr because it is considered to be one of elementary and effective measures to reduce and prevent terrorism, human trafficking and international crime. pnr does not mean that we compromise at the expense of privacy, because when boarding a plane we provide our basic data to the air companies anyway. it is truly regrettable that the liberal-leftist majority has delayed adoption of pnr for 5 years. we owe the directive in question to the victims of paris and brussels terrorist attacks and to prevent possible future victims. sharing air passenger data with security services would help to track down potential terrorists. the epp urges that pnr should be followed by the adoption of an ambitious plan on terrorism as soon as possible, preferably before the summer break.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, it is important to remind ourselves what the purpose of this legislation is. it is to protect companies which cannot patent and cannot use other intellectual property rights but still have trade secrets and need their work to be protected. their trade secrets are their main asset. this is needed to support open innovation as well as collaborative research, and that requires trust between companies. one important issue for me – and i am really happy to see it in the final agreement – was ensuring that the right to remedy on trade secrets is not abused. it should not be misused to create barriers to competition – something that could eventually end up killing innovation, especially for the digital sector, which is a fast-moving market in which a court case lasting years could make an innovation worthless. i believe that this new law manages to strike the balance between protecting trade secrets and ensuring that procedures are not used to hinder competition and innovation. but only the implementation will tell if we have got it right. the issue of whistle-blowers has been discussed a lot by colleagues. yes, we should keep asking the commission to propose a specific legal instrument for whistle-blowers, but we should also know that both parliament and the council improved the commission proposal, making an exemption for whistle-blowers.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have listened carefully to the exchanges and comments on the trade secrets protection proposal. i would like to thank you for your contributions to this important debate, and i can understand that there are some different views and analyses. in closing, let me stress a few key points. trade secrets are particularly important for competitiveness and for the innovation—related performance of european businesses. both are key prerequisites for growth. the le grip proposal will lead to a fairer internal market. it will be easier for businesses to fight dishonest market behaviour by those who try to misappropriate others’ efforts. i also want to underline – and it is important to do so – that the le grip proposal does not undermine the rights and freedoms of employees, competitors, journalists, public administrations and citizens at large. the commission acknowledges the importance of protecting whistle-blowing and of promoting, amongst other things, good governance, privacy, freedom of expression and the fight against corruption. the whistle-blowing protection clause inserted in this directive is an important one and a major step forward in this area. whistle-blowers will be protected for the purpose of protecting the public interest if there is real misconduct, wrong-doing or illegal activity. i may therefore commend the proposed deal to the european parliament and call on your very strong support.
rapporteur.– madam president, money, of course, matters – and time is money, so four minutes is very precious for me. in this house, it is common knowledge – but perhaps not to all european citizens – that the annual budgetary exercise is triangular. the secretary-general, the bureau and the committee on budgets are at the top, and the rapporteur is navigating between them according to the rules of procedure, which, in their most rigid interpretation, might be said to define the time slot for deep, detailed and constructive discussions as very short – even too short, i must say. however, there are other players in the outside world, like the european commission, who rightfully expect parliament to meet the agreed deadlines. if a report is adopted tomorrow in plenary, we may send it out and say better late than never. the second aspect is that there are lots of regulations, interinstitutional agreements, gentlemen’s agreements, inflation estimations by the commission, etc., which have been decided on and agreed by the generations before us. these really affect the outcome of our budgetary negotiations, because you can neither go higher than that nor reduce the amount of money than that, even in cases when it seems necessary. from a personal point of view, that has been for me the most difficult aspect of preparing this report. nevertheless, for the great flexibility shown by the numerous director—generals of parliament’s services, the budget secretariat, the secretary-general and his office staff of different political groups, the accredited assistants and, last but not least, the main actors – the shadow rapporteurs, coordinators and the president of the committee: thank you all. we are here. we stand here right now, and the report is ready. the generally contradicting wishes, the need to make savings corresponding to the economic dire straits outside the european institutions, and on the other hand to manage the needs of a properly functioning house have been tackled at the – sometimes quite heated – debates and consultations. compromises were sought and mostly found; the rest of the text is purely the outcome of a democratic vote in the budget committee. as usual, i can live with the outcome of a democratic vote, and hence i recommend that the members vote in favour. there seems to be a minor problem, and that is the notorious internalisation of transport services. the committee on budgets discussed the matter, as did the bureau. the committee tasked the rapporteur to put a sum of money in reserve, which means that we will come back to the issue later, in autumn or sooner if so decided, and define on the basis of various information whether to release the funds or hold them back. when i now look at the annex to the report, the conditionality has been given to the discretion of the bureau. that is not in accordance to the agreement of conciliation; moreover, this is in my opinion against the very same rules of procedure. i will see how to remedy that injury, and i do hope sincerely that i am not forced to add insult to it. on a more positive note, we have discovered that our excellent translation services are the primary source for the well-known corporation called google. they develop their product, google translate, very much based on the european parliament’s translations into 28 languages, and earn quite good money. i also hear that they are also very eager to optimise taxes, so my proposal is to ask them to make a voluntary contribution to the budget of our institution – perhaps then they will understand the nexus between paying maximum taxes and keeping middle—class jobs. that will also be a step towards the eu’s own resources. to conclude, i am proud and happy that the green initiatives, such as a more transparent depiction of the very poor distinction between investments and running costs, green public procurement, and more fuel and cost—efficient transport have been included in this report. i would like to thank again every each and every person who has been part of this difficult and somewhat obscure exercise, and i hope we will pass the report tomorrow.
rapporteur.– madam president, it has been an interesting and substantial debate, and the comments and speeches have made a good impression on the rapporteur. there are about 20 of us in this chamber at this late hour, and our opinions and beliefs and political positions will determine tomorrow’s vote. as i said, i am pretty well prepared to live with a democratic outcome. i am also prepared for last-minute negotiations tonight if they seek or can achieve some kind of changes to improve the report. no report which seeks a compromise between different institutions, political groups and personalities – and i was lucky enough to have met several of those during this journey – can be ideal. there is a lot to be criticised, ridiculed and contested. yet this is what we have for the time being and tomorrow we will have a vote, so let’s vote and see what happens.
mr president, i would like to highlight the importance of one of the key recommendations of the report, which concerns the winter heating disconnection moratorium. in my native estonia, winters are rather cold – minus 20° celsius is quite normal for us. this year, winter was even colder than usual. however, in the city of kohtla-järve, the residents of several apartment buildings were left without heat due to debts due to the local utility company. low temperatures also caused damage to central heating radiators, and water pipes froze. people in kohtla-järve were lucky because local authorities were able to offer them social housing. this opportunity does not exist in practice in many estonian municipalities. this is only one incident which has happened in estonia this year. however, similar incidents were reported in many other european countries. the winter heating disconnection is often immoral, but it may, in many cases, also lead to human rights violations – not only the right to housing, but under some circumstances it may also violate the right to health and the right to life. without doubt, the moratorium will help us to save people’s lives, health and property.
author.– mr president, we are worried about the continuing violence and acts of terror in pakistan, a great and important country and partner of the eu. the massacre on 27 march in lahore targeted christians, but most of the victims were muslims. our sympathy goes to them all. however, lahore is not an exception. there are systemic violations of freedom of religion under which christians, ahmadis, shia, hindus and others are suffering. outbursts of hatred and violence against minorities often find justification in discriminatory laws. it is especially crucial that we stabilise the situation of religious minorities by the revision of so-called blasphemy laws. the tragedy of asia bibi, the only woman who has been sentenced to death under the blasphemy law, is symbolic. she has been waiting on death row for six years now. therefore, we call urgently on the pakistani authorities to ensure a swift delivery of justice in her case. the situation of religious minorities is our shared concern, and i also call on high representative mogherini to fully engage with the government of pakistan in its efforts to eradicate intolerance and terrorism.
madam president, i am really happy that we have a full data protection package and in the end have achieved agreement spanning most of the political groups. i thank everybody for their contributions. i thank the commission and the council for their very good cooperation. we can really show that in europe, in very hard times, we can have a proper balance between the security of citizens and protection of their basic human rights. so it is a european package and it is a real matter of pride.
member of the commission. i can say that the european commission will as always fulfil the commitments it has made in the past and if questions are raised here that go beyond that, the commission will take note of that and then it will take a decision on that in due course.
madam president, article 96(3) of the rules of procedure stipulates that the president shall set a time limit for tabling amendments to the draft estimates – i underline the words ‘draft estimates’ – which means that the amendments, roll—call votes and oral amendments are admissible. our roll-call vote request was wrongfully rejected, and i now wish to move an oral amendment to the following part of the draft estimates. it concerns the conditions for the release of the reserves in article 216. the text to which the roll-call vote applies is the following: ‘the appropriations may be released following a bureau decision on internalising the members’ transport service’. this sentence should be replaced by the oral amendment i will now read to you: ‘the appropriations may be released following a decision of the committee on budgets’. adopting that oral amendment would not make the report ideal, but it would do a lot to secure broader support in the final vote. whether we support and admit it or not, the situation obliges us to turn to the committee on constitutional affairs (afco) to interpret and clarify the rules of procedure. apart from this, i wish everyone a fruitful vote, remaining loyal to their political priorities. let us not forget that it is only money and, as paul mccartney – famous in panama – says ‘money can’t buy me love’. (laughter)
in writing. ‒ i could not support the report because the proposed pnr directive, even as amended by parliament, does not guarantee a proper balance between human rights/freedoms and the public interest. the pnr directive will considerably affect data subjects’ privacy but in most cases this data cannot be efficiently used in the fight against serious crime and it will hardly enhance internal security.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of harmonisation of rules regarding trade secrets, european companies may not be protected from misappropriation in the same way throughout the european union. this directive establishes legal remedies on a european level in order to guarantee a certain level of protection and a consistent framework. concerns were raised as to whether the directive would infringe on the right to freedom of expression and the right to information, however specific provisions in the directive ensure that there are safeguards which protect these rights. through those provisions it is ensured, for example, that journalists and whistle-blowers are protected in addition to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. due to this well-balanced approach to the protection of rights of companies, the directive has to be supported. especially in order to ensure the protection of smaller companies, which more often rely on trade secrets than on the ip framework due to the costs involved.
in writing. ‒ the report was not sufficiently critical of the human rights situation in the country, especially in view of the ongoing military activities in the kurdish-inhabited regions. moreover, the report did not reduce my concern about the 'refugee deal' europe should not make itself dependent on an unreliable partner such as president erdoğan and offer visa-free regime to those who are clearly not ready to meet all the criteria.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education.– madam president, i have a few remarks from the point of view of the committee on culture. first, i would like to stress that there are certain problems in the youth section of erasmus+ that relate to access to funding compared to the previous youth and action programme. we regret the current suspension of erasmus+ youth funding in greece. second, there are considerable delays in the final payments by the education, culture and audiovisual executive agency. this is unacceptable. it directly affects the beneficiaries’ rights. third, we believe that the european schools have still not addressed the issues raised by the court of auditors and the need to implement a rotation system for sensitive posts and to address other weaknesses in their work. fourth, there is a mismatch between the 7—year programming of the mff and the 10-year programming of the political and strategic priorities of the union. fifth, the europe for citizens programme: it is a unique tool to promote european values and solidarity, especially considering the increasing popularity of radical right and eurosceptical parties, but the present funding level is rather low and budget cuts for this programme are not welcomed.
in writing. attacks on hospitals and schools are a flagrant violation of the fundamental principles of humanitarian law and are extremely despicable. every effort must be made to prevent such attacks from occurring and to hold perpetrators of such acts accountable, using the international criminal court where appropriate. the eu can contribute to the protection and assistance of innocent victims in its relations with third countries through political dialogue, restrictive measures and cooperation with international institutions. it is important to increase eu humanitarian aid, which currently represents only 1% of the total eu budget. in addition, member states must meet the financial commitments already made. it is also important to get the un security council to agree that the veto should not be used on matters relating to war crimes and humanitarian action. the european union is also committed to the implementation of the un charter on human rights and the un convention on the rights of the child.
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable members, thank you for all your comments and your support for transparency which we fully share. it is not by chance that our two institutions are organising a joint event on transparency on 2 may, which will contribute to the public consultation for setting the transparency register and reach out to interested parties in brussels and beyond. as i explained, the revision of regulation 1049/2001 is pending before the co-legislators and the commission stands ready to help council and parliament find common ground. irrespective of this process, the current handling of requests under this regulation is fully compatible with articles 41 and 42 of the charter of fundamental rights. at the same time, the commission is bound to observe the case law of the eu courts with regard to documents relating to infringement investigations against member states. the commission looks forward to working with the european parliament, the council, the ombudsman, the european data protection supervisor, civil society organisations and all concerned stakeholders on shaping the future transparency regime. the commission considers that in the areas where the eu is responsible for administration, the latter is governed by an extensive framework of rules, principles and practices. in that spirit, the commission remains to be convinced about the opportunity of specific legislation providing for a horizontal framework of an eu administrative law at this stage.
in writing.– access to documents is a necessity for transparency and democratic accountability. the recent rise of euroscepticism means we need to strengthen our citizens’ trust in the european administration now more than ever. furthermore, transparency acts as a deterrent to corruption and other questionable behaviour. while the ‘revolving door’ remains a problem, only current members of the administration are within our remit. yet it would still be a move forward if officials had to declare their meetings with people who now serve the private sector but remain in orbit around the institutions. an example of this would be siim kallas. although, as a former commissioner, kallas has a duty to refrain from lobbying the commission and/or its departments on behalf of nortal, he has, in his position as commissioner dombrovskis’ special advisor, unfettered access to the commission while being on the payroll of a software company on whose behalf he theoretically cannot lobby. we need even tougher transparency rules to prevent this kind of behaviour, which clearly erodes public confidence and trust in the eu. it is regrettable that current transparency rules are not fully complied with and that the commission is not making progress towards adopting an instrument which would allow for more transparency.
in writing. - i did. the purpose of the protocol is to enable croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the eu and its member states and georgia.
in writing. - i did. israel is an important aviation partner for the eu in the mediterranean region and the agreement with it is an important achievement in the creation of a common aviation area with the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours. the purpose of the protocol is to enable croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the eu and its member states and israel.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to enable croatia to become a party to the convention as a result of its accession to the eu.
in writing. - i did. the resolution makes a number of proposals that could help protect the interests of children in the eu, in particular in the context of increased mobility of people within the eu. it is important to increase surveillance and information exchange in cross-border cases involving children and to ensure synergies between the child protection systems of the eu member states. improve cooperation between courts, increase training of social workers and ensure that parents receive the necessary support and advice from the state. embassies and consular posts should also be better involved. issues related to adoption, such as keeping siblings together, maintaining as close a cultural background as possible, and the use of the mother tongue, are also addressed. in addition, cooperation in cross-border child abduction cases needs to be strengthened. one proposal is the idea of a single european helpline for cases of child abduction or child abuse and for counselling people in court.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament receives a large number of petitions from parents complaining about the behaviour of child protection bodies abroad. unfortunately, it has often happened to estonian citizens that children have been taken from their families in other european countries without sufficient grounds. the resolution identifies the most acute problems in this area and urges countries to focus on prevention by ensuring adequate funding for early response and information measures to avoid litigation, especially in high-risk groups. it is necessary to monitor the removal of children from other countries from families, to establish a procedure for informing the embassy and consulate of the country of nationality of the child and of the parents of the child, to provide consular staff with the opportunity to become familiar with the procedure at every stage, to establish close cooperation between the social services of the country of birth and of the place of stay of the child, to give preference to family members in adoption where they so request, to provide parents with comprehensive information on the legislation and possible complications, to provide access to qualified legal assistance, for example by providing the services of an interpreter or a double advocate, to establish minimum requirements for the hearing of a child in civil proceedings and to introduce other measures. the european union authorities are now in charge and should do more to remedy the abnormal situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the package being agreed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the package being agreed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the package being agreed.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to reduce the potential for manipulation and abuse.
in writing. - i did. the overall monitoring of the use of resources by the european commission and the implementing agencies has been completed and the 2014 eu budget can be considered as closed.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution in spite of certain problems highlighted in the opinion which i drafted as a rapporteur for cult. first, the youth section of erasmus+: there are many concerns related to access to funding, compared to the previous youth in action programme. i also regret the de facto suspension of erasmus+ youth funding in greece, as highlighted in the 2015 report of the european youth forum. second, considerable delays in final payments by the eacea are not acceptable because it directly affects the beneficiaries’ rights. union institutions shall continue their work to reduce the payment backlog. third, the european schools have not still addressed the issues raised by the court of auditors and they need to implement a rotation system for sensitive posts and to address other weaknesses in their work. fourth, there is a mismatch between the seven-year programming of the multiannual financial framework and the 10-year programming of the political and strategic priorities of the union. fifth, the europe for citizens programme is a unique tool to promote european values and solidarity, very valuable considering the increased popularity of radical right and eurosceptic parties. budget cuts for this programme are not welcomed.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. the 2014 budget of those development funds has been revised and can be considered as finalised.
in writing. - i did. the european parliament has sought to achieve greater budgetary transparency and to reduce overall expenditure, with a view to security, compared with previous years.
in writing. ‒ i am glad that the vast majority of members support the idea of a road map to a single seat for the european parliament. decentralisation of the work of this institution poses a number of administrative problems. furthermore, the union is bearing unreasonable expense: the potential saving would be about eur 114 million per year. centralisation will also contribute to a more rational use of time by parliament’s staff.
in writing. - i supported the postponement. the european council and the council have not submitted to the european parliament sufficient documents and reports to enable their general budget to be approved. the release of those undertakings should therefore be postponed until the necessary documents have been submitted.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge. the next task is to improve the budgetary capacity and simplify its structure in order to ensure a better monetary institution and to strengthen the functioning of the european external action service.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge. in the light of the current refugee crisis, the tasks of the support office are likely to be expanded and the budget will need to be increased accordingly.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i supported the postponement. the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 should be deferred as the budgetary activities have not been finally implemented.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i supported the postponement. the discharge for the 2014 budget of the eniac joint undertaking should be deferred as the budgetary activities have not been finalised.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i supported the postponement. the discharge for the 2014 budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy has to be postponed as the budgetary activities have not been finalised.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. the report shows that the eib has delivered on eu policy objectives and helped to increase economic performance.
in writing. - i did. the attacks on hospitals and schools are a flagrant violation of the basic principles of humanitarian law and are extremely despicable. every effort must be made to prevent such attacks from occurring and to hold perpetrators of such acts accountable, using the international criminal court where appropriate. the eu can contribute to the protection and assistance of innocent victims in its relations with third countries through political dialogue, restrictive measures and cooperation with international institutions. it is important to increase eu humanitarian aid, which currently represents only 1% of the total eu budget. in addition, member states must meet the financial commitments already made. it is also important to get the un security council to agree that the veto should not be used on matters relating to war crimes and humanitarian action. the european union is also committed to the implementation of the un charter on human rights and the un convention on the rights of the child.
in writing. - i did. to increase citizens' trust in the eu institutions, it is necessary to ensure greater transparency of both documents and discussions within the eu institutions. clear and uniform rules should be established for the classification of documents, and classification should be the exception rather than the rule, in which case it should be strongly justified.
in writing. - i remained neutral. a problem that requires action and improvement by member states exists and needs to be addressed, but does not require a separate legislative act at eu level. there is an ilo convention 189 that regulates this very well and that member states should follow to improve the situation. the commission's intervention in this matter is not necessary.
in writing. - i did. the increasing role of ict in society provides an opportunity to increase the role of women through this area as well, thus contributing to the revitalization of the labour market. it will enable women to participate more in politics, access information and reduce their poverty. it also carries risks, including trafficking in female bodies and so on. this includes increasing the teaching of online behaviour.
madam president, we should first of all have in mind the context. russia is not a normal partner any more. its strategic aim is to weaken the eu – to split and discredit it. gazprom has been, and is still, the main tool of russian foreign policy. at a time of russia’s increasing provocations, the kremlin tries to demonstrate that the eu still needs it; that we can be further disorientated, that they can make fun of our energy union, and that they can weaken and economically isolate ukraine. in this new situation, i am afraid there is no room for pretending that we can conduct two parallel policies – one of russian sanctions, and another pretending that this is private business. nord stream 2 is a politically motivated project. we cannot hide our heads in the sand. it has to be countered by strong and clear political means.
in writing. – i agree with what my honourable colleague mr kelam said on the matter, and i would like to add that reliance on russia’s gas supply is extremely short-sighted because it is not sustainable in the long term. primarily since russia is not a reliable partner, but also because russia’s supplies are limited. i believe that gazprom is bluffing and the alleged abundance of gas in siberia is greatly exaggerated. it would be hypocritical and contradictory on our part to condemn the war in ukraine and the annexation of crimea on one hand while on the other we further increase our own dependence on russia in the field of energy. russia has on several occasions tried to strangle ukraine, earlier by cutting off supply in a critical moment and now by planning to bypass ukraine entirely in order to further destabilise them economically. russia wields energy as a weapon without hesitation, which is why we should oppose doubling nord stream’s capacity, both out of solidarity for ukraine but also to avoid ending up in a similarly precarious situation. to achieve this we need strong political means, but while we pinpoint those we should at the very least keep the current sanctions.
blue-card question.– you mentioned that there are differences between the countries in youth unemployment. you mentioned spain and greece, for example. could you perhaps specify what could be the reason? are there differences, for example, in digital skills, in the type of education, or other things that could be concrete reasons for that?
in writing. - i did. this is a codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. - i did. this is a codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. - i did. the eu has an interest in the tuna fishing area there, but the agreement also aims to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible use of fish stocks, and to support the sustainable development of the liberian economy and the region.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to provide eu vessels with fishing opportunities in mauritian waters and to contribute to a sustainable fisheries policy and a more responsible use of fisheries resources. in addition, efforts are being made to alleviate mauritania's 30% unemployment rate by committing local residents to work on eu vessels, and a methodology has been improved for the 2% of people with a handicap in pelagic fisheries.
in writing. - i did. the agreement shall encourage and enhance cooperation in the field of civil satellite navigation.
in writing. - i did. community-led local development and ict should become increasingly important, and member states could make more use of them. the report addresses the various problems that have arisen, from the complex conception of the instruments to the member states concerned about their potential impact. new opportunities must be exploited, young people must be involved, additional and unnecessary requirements and barriers must be avoided at national and regional level, and solutions for simplification must be found.
in writing. - i did. the regulation aims to improve the collection of statistics and to increase their transparency and reliability. in addition, it is necessary to update the regulation to bring it into line with the provisions of the eu treaty.
in writing. - i did. mountain areas could contribute to eu objectives, for example by providing green jobs and renewable energy sources. however, mountain regions in the eu are rarely at the centre of cohesion policy, due to the lack of infrastructure and the additional costs involved. the call is for an eu action plan for mountain regions to contribute to their economic and social development in a sustainable way.
madam president, i visited lebanon a few weeks ago where i also met with syrian refugees. none of them expressed a wish to move to europe, but wanted to return to their homes in syria. in order for them to be able to wait in the neighbouring country for a time when it would be safe for them to do that, they must have access to elementary things like schools for the children, the possibility to work and access to medical care. this is something that other countries, including the european union, can support through financial means. the world humanitarian summit must deliver a clear commitment to increasing humanitarian aid to help refugees close to their homes. another problem is promises made by different countries to help during crises but which have not been delivered. look at the actual money given to haiti and nepal after the earthquakes and also the refugee crises at hand. there are promises to give money, but these promises must also actually be upheld. this first ever world humanitarian summit must really deliver and not become a disappointment.
in writing. it should be borne in mind that the refugees in lebanon and jordan are primarily war refugees. people who want to return to their home countries and build their lives there, not move on to live in europe. in order to allow them to wait in syria's neighbouring countries until the war ends and it is possible to return home, they need to be provided with the basic conditions necessary for life, such as access to school for children, work for adults and medical care. the eu can make a significant contribution here, both financially and directly, through the various un aid agencies, as well as through its human resources.
mr president, venezuela’s democracy and economy have reached a perilous state. recently, about 2 million citizens expressed their will for a referendum to be able to decide the fate of the current president. i think this is a sign of deep dissatisfaction with the political regime, which has deeply divided the country in dire need of reform. after the victory of the united opposition last year, mr maduro has used all his powers to block practically every initiative by the new parliament, including the release of political prisoners. it is obvious that president maduro has no constructive ideas on how to heal the deepening crisis, so the country has reached an explosive impasse. his last recipe was to impose a two-day working week for public servants to save energy. i think he should follow this original solution by a personal example: establish a zero-hour working week for himself, thereby saving the energy of his countrymen and clearing the way for national reconciliation and reforms.
in writing. - i did. it is necessary to extend the regulation to allow time for the completion of the review of investment firms and the development and adoption of the necessary legislation on the basis thereof.
in writing. – i voted in favour on the regulation on europol. the interconnectedness of cross-border crimes, such as terrorism, organised crime, especially human trafficking and cyber crime/cyber threats, require a strong mandate for europol. i welcome the fact that judicial cooperation between europol and eurojust, processing information from private parties will be enabled and better cooperation with member states, with other eu bodies in general, and under special circumstances cooperation with private parties and third countries is made possible. preventing crime and terrorism is only possible if different bodies and levels interact with each other. the new data protection package will provide for necessary guarantees to prevent data breaches. i especially welcome creating a new body within europol – the internet referral unit (iru) to combat terrorist propaganda and violent extremism online. most importantly, these changes need to be accompanied by adequate budgetary adjustments to meet the real needs to carry out the extensive tasks europol is assigned to, that should also lead to increased number of staff. finally, high level commitment and engagement by member states in ensuring rapid response and information transfer and full operational cooperation.
in writing. - i did. this is the second reading, the aim of which is to bring europol and cepol together.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to improve the conditions for entry of students and researchers from third countries and to seek to avoid their exploitation.
in writing. - i did. cohesion policy has the potential to increase jobs, growth and energy efficiency and must therefore be used effectively and in a timely manner.
member of the commission. other mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for your speeches. today's debate has made it clear that the status quo is not an option. it also showed that there is a wide diversity of views on how to improve the functioning of our common european asylum system. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. an approach aimed at a greater integration of our asylum systems could be desirable. if you ask me if i'm happy, i'll tell you that i'm satisfied. our proposal today is both balanced and realistic. it is also ambitious because we propose to go beyond the current dublin regulation by introducing a fundamental change, an automatic redistribution mechanism. it is realistic because we are proposing the changes that are needed to create a system that is sustainable and equitable. our reform simplifies the rules for determining the state responsible. the basic principle is that only one member state will be responsible for examining an asylum application. at the same time, we propose an automatic mechanism for the distribution of new asylum seekers when a member state is faced with a disproportionate number of asylum applications. this is a strong expression of the solidarity which must exist between the member states. this solidarity may take various forms, including financial ones. the important thing is that she expresses herself. with the support of european funds and the new european union agency for asylum, each member state needs to develop its capacity to handle a fair number of asylum applications, which can be up to 150% of its reference value. the threshold has been set to allow intervention before a state is faced with a crisis. to this end, the possibility of triggering the mechanisms will be examined weekly. secondly, let me clarify what we are proposing to adapt the rules for unaccompanied minors to the new logic of the dublin regulation. our proposal states that the member state responsible will be the one where the minor first lodges his application for international protection. this member state is not necessarily the first country of entry. in all cases, member states will have to ensure that this is in the best interests of the child. the new regulation provides for safeguards to ensure that this examination is carried out. finally, we are proposing stricter rules to discourage secondary movements which undermine the functioning of our asylum system. the reinforcement of easo's competences and its human and financial resources, and the strengthening of eurodac will facilitate the implementation of the dublin system. i really hope to work closely with you on our proposals without wasting any time. too many parameters depend on it. an effective common european asylum system is the sine qua non of a european area without frontiers. the experience we have had in the past year has made us more determined, not only to deal with the migration crisis now, but to create a functioning and fair system for the future. let me now answer mr kyrkos in greek. signor circo, there is no plan b. there is only one plan and it is based on the principle of solidarity, so we also proposed a change of dublin. but it is also based on one objective: to combat trafficking networks and of course to implement the cooperation we have decided with turkey. and i want to emphasize that this strategy is already beginning to bear fruit. you know very well that arrivals to the greek islands have decreased dramatically. therefore, the rumors and the rumours about plan b are not true and i really thank you for raising this issue and giving me the opportunity to clarify it.
in writing. – the asylum reform is lagging behind reality. the new ec proposal does not amount to a comprehensive solution. probably quite some member states and meps will not agree with the proposed corrective allocation mechanism in cases of disproportionate number of asylum applications, foreseeing also a payment of eur 250 000 per refused applicant. solidarity cannot be enforced by disciplinary measures, it shouldn’t put the validity of subsidiarity principle under doubt. the proposed mechanism will enable a ms to buy itself free from solidarity. i am afraid that instead of contributing to more solidarity this will create more tension and induce new cracks in eu unity. the ec proposal doesn´t address one of the major problems – the massive, organised human trafficking by criminal gangs. according to europol 90% of asylum seekers in 2015 had used the services of human traffickers, thus creating them a profit between eur 3-6 billion. this extorted money flows mostly to organised crime and islamic extremists. eu needs a rapid and comprehensive solution to clamp down on international criminal networks. lastly, return of people who do not qualify for admission seems not to work. only 1/3 of those who were refused asylum have been actually sent back, leaving 2/3 to hover in unknown.
madam president, the russian annexation of crimea is illegal and needs to stop. crimea must be returned to ukraine, but until this is the case, russia is obliged to protect the crimean people from any form of discrimination and to protect their human rights. sadly, we are witnessing the opposite. the banning of the mejlis and the persecution of its members is deplorable and has to stop. we are soon going to discuss again the sakharov prize nominees. looking at the situation of the crimean tatars, i would suggest we consider as one of the sakharov prize nominees mustafa dzhemilev, a leader of the crimean tatars, who has been banned from entering crimea for his activities in promoting the human rights of the crimean tatars in crimea. the eu needs to send a clear message that we do not tolerate the current occupation of crimea or the repression of the crimean tatars.
in writing. ‒ i supported the aim of making the sharing of tax information between countries more transparent.
in writing. - i did. unfortunately, fish products sold on the eu market are often mislabeled, even intentionally, and higher quality fish species are replaced by lower quality ones. measures must be taken to put an end to this practice.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution. china is clearly not fulfilling the needed five criteria established by the eu marking the status of a market economy. the state interference with the economy regarding prices, costs, outputs and inputs is not in line with a well-functioning market economy. further, the eu trade defence instruments legislation is still blocked in the council. it is one thing to pursue economic relations with china, but we have to first and foremost think of our citizens, of european jobs and industry. tdi must be in place to protect the jobs and our industry in the eu. the dramatic developments in the steel industry are a good example of what can happen without proper trade defence instruments in place.
in writing. - i did. it is important that the eu continues to fulfil its international obligations in the wto, but in doing so, a way must also be found to ensure the protection of eu industry from unfair trade.
in writing. - i did. greater cooperation and coherence between different policy areas and eu actors is essential to ensure the integration of the three pillars of sustainable development into the eu's internal and external policies.
in writing. - no, he didn't. voluntary labelling is reasonable, but mandatory labelling is extremely costly and, in addition, extremely difficult to identify and verify the true origin of all components.
in writing. - i did. studies show that fathers take very little parental leave. the main reasons for this are low benefits and its transferability in many countries. however, it would be important to create favourable conditions for the use of paternity leave as well and to improve the provisions in the legislation on parental leave.
in writing. - i did. it is important that member states and relevant eu institutions do their utmost to improve the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings, to reduce their vulnerability and to effectively address the prevention and combating of trafficking in human beings.
mr president, thomas edison said: ‘there is a way to do it better – find it’. i think this quote sums up very much what digital innovation is all about: doing it better and finding new ways to solve problems, from access to services and goods to environment and mobility. the whole purpose of the digital single market strategy is also about breaking down barriers, those that are often created by outdated legislation or practices. modernisation of the relevant legislation will be key for europe to be an innovative force behind the next wave of innovation which is data-driven. on geo-blocking, two points. i believe that we need to be ambitious in addressing the reasons why companies geo-block, from parcel delivery to contract and consumer law and vat and copyright as well. as long as the reasons to geo-block exist the companies will continue with these practices. the purpose of all this is to get more companies to sell online, not to scare them off. so there is still a lot to be done here. the other point is about transport-related services. i do not really buy the argument that they should be exempt from this proposal. those websites are very often used by older europeans and they are very often geo-blocked or they discriminate among consumers based on their ip address. so there is a lot to be done here, and the single market strategy is about breaking down barriers, so we will continue with this work.
in writing. – long awaited proposals on boosting digital single market were presented. although aimed to tear down digital walls, unfortunately the ec proposal does not seem to reach far enough. measures concerning geoblocking, geodiscrimination of online sales, content and payments are to be welcomed, but they seem to be more of a cosmetic nature than substantially enhancing the potential of the digital single market. i hope that the ep and the member states will expand the proposals on e-commerce. i welcome the measures foreseen to make parcel delivery costs transparent that could push the service providers to change their price policy and by that boosting cross-border delivery service and e-commerce. it is regrettable that the provisions on online sales do not aim to completely abolish geodiscrimination and are limited only to sale, but not to delivery. in my view everyone should be able to purchase goods online everywhere in the eu and have it delivered to their home country paying the existing parcel delivery price. also, it is unfortunate that whereas geodiscrimination of payment methods has been reduced, it would still allow merchants to limit payments to local cards, such as bancontact or girocard and therefore exclude everyone not in possession of concrete belgian or german payment card.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, this morning one speaker made a very interesting parallel between the industrial revolution and the digital revolution: that the industrial revolution brought many good things, but it also brought challenges like air pollution. so it is the same with the digital revolution. it creates new opportunities but it also has new challenges around cyber security and privacy, so therefore i think that the digital identity should be at the heart of our digital policies. e-id will be the key to address challenges of privacy and cyber security and to the growth of digital economy. all these passwords, logins and all that is needed, are needed to be replaced by online measures which are secure. edward lucas wrote in his book cyberphobia about this trend for passwords for everything, and he says that it is a recipe for catastrophe because it is a system which is very difficult for the humans to remember but very easy for the computer to guess. so many member states have already developed means of online identification, but in some countries citizens are not even aware of this, because they do not have any online services that they can use e-identity for. so what is the incentive to do it in the first place? therefore i have two questions for the vice-president. given that from september 2018 all member states will be required to recognise all notified national e-id means, what will be the concrete actions taken to ensure that this is implemented in time but also that member states have the online services available for their citizens? the other question, as we need to lead by example: is the commission intending to actually implement this in the commission, so that the commission will also recognise e-id’s place, and when will this happen?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, the opinion from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) strongly welcomes the commission’s proposed initiative on a new deal for energy consumers. active and empowered consumers should be the main drivers of a competitive european energy market. the market is not really functioning well and is failing to provide competition and also better prices for consumers. so what is the cure for this? we must move away from regulated prices, make switching easier, and provide incentives for the deployment of smart technologies. also, we must make data available for app developers to help consumers to manage their energy consumption. this is essential to get active consumers on board. one important point on consumers that we should not forget is that ‘active consumer’ does not mean a ‘presumer’, and not every consumer wants to be a presumer, so it should remain up to them what level of engagement they want in their energy consumption.
in writing. consumers must be able to obtain adequate information on the cheapest energy prices, to compare different offers better and, of course, to switch suppliers quickly, easily and free of charge. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
in writing. – aside from efficiency gains, the raison d'être of our energy union is to guarantee security of supply, in other words energy security. russia has demonstrated on countless occasions that it is not a reliable partner to the european union, and that it does not hesitate to wield energy as a political weapon. this is precisely why we should not increase our own dependency on russian gas by doubling the capacity of the nord stream pipeline. furthermore, we would be helping russia in destabilising ukraine. the current nord stream pipeline is only used at half of its existing capacity; therefore, doubling its capacity makes no economic sense. this is clear evidence that the only reason to double the capacity is to be able to reroute all the gas that is transiting through ukraine. not only would this have disastrous consequences for ukraine, but it would put eastern european union member states in a more precarious position since we do not have sufficient interconnections for that gas to make its way from germany back to eastern member states.
madam president, estonia is the only eu country where remote internet voting is an additional voting channel for all elections. other european countries do not use it, mostly for security reasons. we can vote in estonia via the internet during the advance voting period when the election campaign is still under way, and it is possible to change the electronic vote without limitations. at the last european elections i-votes made up 31% of all votes, and there was a considerable difference between the results of electronic and paper voting. estonian politicians and international experts have raised numerous concerns regarding the i-voting system as such. experts have presented numerous examples of how it is possible to change votes, compromise the secret ballot or even disrupt elections. e-democracy is becoming a part of our everyday life and therefore we need to revisit the practices of i-voting that provoke deep distrust in estonian society. elections should be fair both in practice and in the eyes of the people. otherwise i-voting will compromise not only e-democracy but also democracy as such.
in writing. - i did. in order to monitor developments in virtual currencies and related technologies and to analyse the benefits and risks associated with them, it is appropriate to establish a working group of experts, which could, if necessary, recommend measures to regulate the sector and mitigate the risks.
in writing. - i did. the bankruptcy of the french company moryglobal led to redundancies and the fund helps redundant workers to return to the labour market.
in writing. - i did. the support from the fund is important to facilitate the successful reintegration of the redundant employees of supermarket larissa in greece.
in writing. ‒ no, because it does not consider that such exceptions are reasonable. sweden has seen a decline in the number of people moving, and creating such an exception also reduces the motivation of other countries to relocate refugees.
in writing. - i did. cross-border data flows between the us and europe are the largest in the world, and the transfer and exchange of personal data are important components in the field of business and law enforcement. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu-us privacy shield, including on the implementation of the eu privacy shield. the new privacy shield framework improves the protection of personal data, but it too needs periodic review and the removal of some shortcomings.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to inform energy consumers about the opportunities of the energy market and thus also help them to save money. consumers must be able to obtain adequate information on the cheapest energy prices, to compare different offers better and, of course, to switch suppliers quickly, easily and free of charge. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
in writing. ‒ social tariffs are a good tool in addressing the causes of energy poverty. targeting social tariffs at the most vulnerable groups can prevent situations where families have to live without hot water, electricity and heating. every year households in estonia suffer in cold during winter because they are not able or were not able to pay heating costs. social tariffs can prevent such hardship.
in writing. - i did. unfortunately, poverty affects women more than men, especially single mothers, pensioners, immigrants or people with disabilities. they are over-represented in precarious jobs, many of them on career breaks, in so-called women-friendly jobs or part-time jobs, and this is because they have to take care of loved ones, not because it is a conscious choice. unfortunately, the gender pay and pension gaps that emerge from careers that are hampered by attempts to reconcile work and private life place a heavy burden of financial hardship and daily insecurity on women and limit their economic independence. member states must do more to eliminate such inequalities.
in writing. - i did. member states should do more to promote a more competitive and open single market by cooperating and increasing mutual assessments of how their national rules support the single market. the removal of non-tariff barriers will benefit businesses across the eu and also consumers, thanks to lower prices and greater choice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report contains numerous relevant proposals how to reinforce and deepen the single market. ideally the eu should be an open, innovative, welcoming single market. unfortunately, even more than a decade after starting the process, we still face similar obstacles. the eu single market is still controlled by national borders to an extent that does not foster proper cross-border business making, cross-border services exchange, healthy labour mobility (that would in fact give european youth better starting point for finding proper jobs). cumbersome procedures and complying with national standards and norms prevent many businesses, especially smes and microbusinesses to expand their activities across the borders. i call on the ec and the ms to take political leadership and rapidly eliminate remaining obstacles and minimize the impact of national borders on european single market. i call on developing and implementing innovative measures to reduce bureaucracy and compliance, enable access to seed and especially innovation financing. common e-certificates, e-signatures, e-platforms accepted by all member states are a must. lastly, the report underlines mismatch of skills with rapidly developing digital sphere – action has to start now, from children to elderly, boosting digital literacy is key to provide sustainable and innovative european single market.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to facilitate cross-border trade and create new opportunities for businesses. the digital single market is a positive theme for estonia, with the aim of creating common rules and ensuring greater rights for consumers in this rapidly developing area.
madam president, latvia and estonia host a large number of stateless people. they are former citizens of the soviet union and their children. stateless people make up 12% of the latvian population and 6% of the estonian population. the soviet union ceased to exist 24 years ago. the problem of mass statelessness in estonia and latvia has not been solved so far. in both countries stateless residents are denied voting rights during national and european elections, in latvia also during local elections. estonian and latvian residents have collected more than 17 000 signatures in order to submit a petition where they ask parliament to correct the under-representation of stateless people in the european parliament. they have very good reasons to advocate change. in the case of estonia and latvia, and especially in latvia, the number of seats allocated to these countries in the european parliament is disproportionately high at the expense of persons without voting rights. i wish my colleagues to support the expansion of voting rights for stateless residents in estonia and latvia.
in writing. - i did. the protocol must be ratified by 40 parties before it can enter into force. the eu and its member states should be able to ratify the protocol as soon as possible, as this would significantly contribute to its entry into force and implementation, and would benefit public health and facilitate the international fight against the trade in tobacco products, tax evasion and organised crime.
in writing. - i did. given the importance of the automotive industry to the eu economy and the need to maintain the eu's competitiveness in this sector in the rest of the world, it is important to promote global cooperation in the development of common standards and to participate in the unece agreement.
in writing. - i did. the need to conclude the protocol arises from the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. - i did. the free movement of persons within the eu should also be accompanied by legal certainty for people from different countries who have wished to marry. the current system creates situations where people who are divorcing or otherwise have ended their relationship find it difficult to understand which country's judicial and legal system they should be subject to. enhanced cooperation in this area is therefore important and i hope that estonia will join in.
in writing. - i did. the protocol aims to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products, including their production, transport, reception, possession, distribution, sale and purchase.
in writing. - i did. in order to ensure legal certainty and to avoid possible market distortions, it is necessary to postpone the entire period of application of the framework.
in writing. - i did. in order to ensure legal certainty and to avoid possible market distortions, it is necessary to postpone the entire period of application of the framework.
in writing. - i did. each eu member state shall appoint a representative to the control bureau.
in writing. - i did. there is a need to find ways of better using the instruments to implement the eu's development policy in an effective and systematic way. greater involvement of eu delegations is also important, as they often have country-specific information that is still underused and underappreciated. i also think it is important to focus on the eu's external policy, as stabilising the eu's neighbourhood must be a priority for the eu.
in writing. - i did. it is important to invest in an agricultural model that promotes smallholder farmers, supports women and fosters domestic and regional market opportunities in africa.
in writing. - i did. financial reporting standards need to be improved, and compliance with and consistent application of these standards are essential to ensure a level playing field in the single market.
in writing. - i did. peace-keeping operations must continue, as stability in africa and the eu's neighbourhood is of paramount importance to the eu itself. to do this, the eu must ensure that the member states actually contribute to the commitments they have made, that the use of eu funds is efficient, targeted and properly monitored. it is also important to train peacekeepers and bring to justice those who commit crimes as peacekeepers, among other things.
in writing. - i did. unfair trading practices affect in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, which may lose the ability to invest and the desire to develop their activities in the single market. i therefore believe it is important that both the member states and the eu address this issue and seek to harmonise the ways in which these unfair trade practices are tackled.
in writing. - i did. the world's growing population is creating a greater demand for food, but there is less and less land available for agriculture, and other factors are affecting the natural environment. in order to enable farmers to continue to produce food in a sustainable way, it is necessary to promote technology, innovation and to make their benefits more accessible to all farmers.
in writing. - i did. the world's growing population is driving ever-increasing consumption of meat and dairy products. it is therefore necessary to accelerate and encourage innovation and entrepreneurship in agriculture in order to keep pace with such consumption without increasing the ecological footprint of agricultural production.
of course, a systematic approach to the migration crisis is crucial, and this initiative is therefore also welcome. it is clear that, to date, neither the european union nor the world has done enough to ensure that refugees can find safe refuge as close as possible to their home countries. for example, syrian refugees in turkey, lebanon, and jordan need jobs, school places for their children, and medical care to wait for the war in syria to end and then return home. many, even most, of the war refugees do not want to come to europe, but they have been forced to. the european union must significantly increase its support for refugees as close as possible to their home countries, for example through the un refugee agency. only this will reduce the pressure of refugees on europe and the tragedy in the aegean and the mediterranean. if refugees in these countries do not have basic conditions, then agreements with turkey or any other country will not help. in any case, the confused people will find a new and more dangerous way.
in writing. the security situation in bangladesh is of grave concern. the growing number of innocent deaths, including bloggers, religious minorities, human rights activists, teachers and foreigners, has seriously threatened human rights and freedom of expression and religion in bangladesh. the government of bangladesh must acknowledge the existence of extremist forces in the country, do more to root out extremism, bring criminals to justice and ensure the protection of the people. at the same time, the pretext of fighting extremism cannot be used to attack peaceful opposition.
in writing. – while it is important to future-proof our security and defence strategies in the field of space capabilities, we must not forget to secure ourselves in terms of more basic necessities such as energy. before relocating into space we must first make sure everything is in order at home. energy security has to be a core priority for the eu. a reliable supply of energy will ensure not only our survival but also our ability to conduct research and innovate in the field of security and defence. we should not increase our dependency on russian gas by doubling the capacity of the nord stream pipeline. doing so would be extremely detrimental to our energy security since russia has demonstrated on countless occasions that it is not a reliable partner for the european union and that it does not hesitate to use energy as a political weapon. the solution to our current predicament lies in creating more effective energy interconnections within the eu, as well as diversifying our sources of supply.
in writing. - i did. the commission's task is to ensure the smooth functioning of the tax system and better coordination between the tax systems of the member states and to prevent any departure from administrative obligations.
in writing. - i did. the agreement provides for the possibility for citizens of the european union and of belarus to travel without a visa for a short stay to the territory of the other contracting party. the agreement will help to facilitate investment and promote tourism.
in writing. - i did. the agreement provides for the possibility for eu and tongan citizens to travel without a visa for a short stay to the territory of the other contracting party.
in writing. - i did. the agreement provides for the possibility for eu and colombian citizens to travel without a visa for a short stay to the territory of the other contracting party. the agreement will, inter alia, allow for further cooperation in the field of human rights and will help address issues such as human rights defenders and the safety of women and children in armed conflict. colombia can become an important partner in the eu's action against drug trafficking and, for example, the signing of a strategic cooperation agreement with europol is important for the prevention of organised crime.
in writing. - i did. the trade volume of the it sector has increased significantly over the last 20 years. the agreement increases the number of it products exempted from duty under the preferential arrangements. this will benefit both consumers and producers and has the potential to create jobs and boost gdp growth. however, it is important that as many members as possible join this agreement.
in writing. - i did. the psychoactive substance α-pvp may have toxic effects on human health and therefore a control measure should be established to ensure its safe use.
in writing. - i did. accession to the protocol will ensure that ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances in eu waters take responsibility for their cargo and will allow funds to be used to compensate victims in the event of accidents.
in writing. - i did. the convention regulates liability for ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances and compensation for victims of accidents.
in writing. - i did. the conclusion of the agreement is due to the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. - i did. support for the agreement is important to promote cooperation between the eu and the philippines.
in writing. - i did. the philippines is a model for countries in its region, having ratified eight of the nine major human rights conventions, as well as the rome statute of the international criminal court. it is important that the eu continues to support the country in its fight against poverty, in its response to climate change and in its respect for human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. - i did. tunisia has made progress in promoting democratic principles, but the country has suffered from a number of terrorist attacks. the country's economic growth has slowed considerably in recent years, largely due to the unrest in the region. however, the eu's macro-financial assistance facility may be mobilised to support a third country in crisis. the objectives of the aid programme financed by it are to improve the budgetary situation of the state, to balance the balance of payments and to encourage investment.
in writing. - i did. businesses should pay income tax where they make profits. i therefore supported the report's proposal to define the conditions under which the countries of establishment of multinational companies can be demonstrated. the report also regulates patent provisions and supports innovative enterprises.
in writing. ‒ the proposed directive deals with cross-border tax avoidance practices. this is not justified that in the eu some tax jurisdictions can be regarded as tax heavens and they are used by taxpayers to reduce considerably their tax bill. no corporate income shall remain without taxation and all member states need to introduce comprehensive rules against tax avoidance.
in writing. - i did. states must respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, including those of prisoners.
in writing. ‒ i endorse recommendations included in the text of this resolution. without doubt lithuania, romania and poland shall conduct proper investigations into the cia secret prisons on their territory which have hardly operated in line with european human rights standards. us president barack obama must remember his pre-election commitment and find a way to close the notorious guantánamo bay detention facility.
in writing. - i did. the eu's common security and defence policy must also include strategic cooperation in the space sector. the report stresses the need to take space policy into account in other policy areas, and in particular highlights its contribution to the fight against terrorism and the facilitation of information exchange through space-based satellite communication systems.
in writing. - i did. the eu's space activities are of great importance for the implementation of satellite navigation, earth observation and security services. in addition, space policy is also of great importance in terms of scientific and technological development, innovation, economic growth, industrial competitiveness and social cohesion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. european parliament stands in solidarity with the people of venezuela. the rapidly deteriorating situation of human rights, democracy and rule of law gives reason to grave concern. the opposition had one month to gather 200 000 signatures to support a referendum to force president maduro out of office, within a week they collected more than 1.8 million. this is a clear sign that venezuelan people want a change and a way out of an authoritarian rule. venezuelan economy is expected to shrink this year by further 8%, there is a shortage of everything from electricity to basic nutrition. it has become a situation of permanent crisis that both the current president maduro and his predecessor chavez are to be held responsible for. venezuela holds one of the biggest oil reserves of the planet, and yet people are told not to blow-dry their hair in order to save electricity. we call on the venezuelan government:- to respect the peacefully elected new national- to release political prisoners- to respect the legal mechanisms relating to the call for a referendum on the continuity of the president of the country before the end of 2016.
in writing. - i did. the draft resolution calls on venezuela to fight more vigorously for democratic governance. the human rights and socio-economic situation in venezuela is extremely poor and requires immediate and decisive action.
in writing. - i did. endocrine disruptors are not healthy for humans and can cause infertility and cancer, so the european commission must regulate the use of endocrine disrupting substances without delay.
in writing. - no, he didn't. does not consider that separate regulation is necessary. it would be more effective to reform the whole system of regulating the market in genetically modified products.
in writing. - no, he didn't. does not consider that separate regulation is necessary. it would be more effective to reform the whole system of regulating the market in genetically modified products.
madam president, in europe data is gathered in silence. so why is it important? because it creates data duplication and lack of interoperability and it simply deters data exchange. we clearly do not lack databases in europe. the problem is that these databases do not communicate with each other. the answer is certainly not a super database and, even less, creating a database accessible for all. it is about setting a framework that interconnects them, making sure that outgoing data is encrypted and all incoming data is authenticated and logged to create trust, protect privacy and get maximum impact from this data collection. member states are already implementing such solutions to deploy digital services: x-road is the estonian example. i fail to understand why the commission still has not tried to solve this problem. the real problem is the lack of data-sharing using existing technology and technological solutions that are already in place.
in writing. – recent terrorist attacks have directly pointed at one of the biggest vulnerabilities of the eu – fragmentation of the union’s information systems, exposing their inadequate interoperability and interconnectedness. substantial amount of information is gathered around eu. however, it is not shared enough among the ms, nor is it fed into common information database. the existing databases are not used to their maximum capacity. lack of trust between member states and distrust for common databases is deeply rooted. one of the causes of such a deficiency of trust roots in different level of cyber security around europe. protection of critical information systems has to be upgraded to the maximum efficiency level in all member states; only based on such level can one expect maximum sharing of information. i look forward to the framework on interoperability and interconnectedness of the information systems. in order to detect, follow and prevent terrorism and cross-border crime, law enforcement, border guards and other relevant players need a real time access to quality information of all eu databases. member states should show political leadership, and implement what they declare – share, feed and use relevant information.
author. – mr president, six years ago the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) concluded between the eu and tajikistan came into force. this is not only about trade and economic cooperation. article 2 stresses the respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights which should underpin their external as well as internal policies. today, there are most worrying signals about the increased harassment and suppression of the opposition, culminating in last week’s sentencing of two opposition leaders to life imprisonment. we are concerned about the systematic harassment and arrest of lawyers, especially those who defend people accused by the state power. the third reason for concern is news about many cases of the use of torture. while understanding the importance of the political and economic relationship, this must be deeply linked with respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. therefore i call on the eeas to closely monitor proper implementation of the law, especially the right of association and forming political parties.
on behalf of the s&d group. it is sad to note that tajikistan, which is indeed one of the poorest post-communist countries, has been sinking back into a full-blown totalitarian atmosphere over the past year. the european union has extended its aid to tajikistan, but we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that all development of the rule of law has come to a halt. the independence of the judiciary is a very important guarantee of the rule of law. the fact that tajik law enforcement officials, who could be expected to guarantee basic human rights to political opposition, have also been subjected to political repression is a particularly grave danger. our resolution is very important in that it also stresses that, while we understand that any fight against terrorism, violent extremism, must be understood internationally, this does not mean that it can be any excuse for such human rights abusing and tyrannical methods to be applied against the political opposition and against independent justice. so we very much hope that the representatives of the european union in their dialogue with tajikistan will also follow very strictly the rule of law in that country.
in writing. – in less than two years more than 1 160 people have been killed. that is two people per day. almost the same number of people have been abducted. over 400 000 people have had to flee the country, 1.5 million are internally displaced and 7.5 million people are in need of assistance. rape and sexual violence is widely used by both armed groups and government forces. humanitarian workers can only offer limited help, since they and their convoys are being attacked themselves. and the security situation in the north-eastern part of drc continues to deteriorate: massacres occur and children are recruited by the armed groups. to stop this horror, all parties to the conflict must be brought together to try to work out a solution. abuses must be examined and, where needed, must be brought to the icc. monusco must become more effective in protecting the civilians and must be more rapid in its reactions where needed. the safety of humanitarian workers must be guaranteed.
in writing. – we should not increase our dependency on russian gas by doubling the capacity of the nord stream pipeline. doing so would be extremely detrimental to our energy security since russia has demonstrated on countless occasions that it is not a reliable partner to the european union, and that it does not hesitate in wielding energy as a political weapon. furthermore, russia has a long history of not abiding by rules or by what has been agreed upon. the latest example of this kind of behaviour is state-sponsored doping that has led to the disqualification of the entire russian track and field team from the rio olympics. on several previous occasions, russia has demonstrated that it does not hesitate to infringe upon international law, or the territorial integrity of its neighbours, which is exactly why we cannot rely on russia or naively believe that things have changed, at least under the current regime. we should be creating more effective energy interconnections within the eu, as well as diversifying our sources.
in writing. the decision by the united kingdom to leave the european union opened the way for a new crisis in the eu, and in addition to the four crises that had been unleashed so far the refugee crisis, tensions with russia, the terrorism crisis and economic problems, another large and currently still undetermined problem was added. this has implications for the economy, politics and security of both the eu and the uk. the 27 eu member states must be extremely balanced to avoid a domino effect caused by the british referendum. unfortunately, too many people have short memories, and the peace that the eu has brought to the countries of the european union has been overshadowed by the emotional problems of the day. now, that peace bond has been hit, too. the eu must now think in a balanced way about how to bring the eu closer to its citizens, how to ensure the promotion of the eu's common values, stability and sustainability, and how to make the eu a functioning community that is able to respond actively, quickly and effectively to the crises that affect it. the uk must decide as soon as possible how to proceed in this situation, so that the period of uncertainty is as short as possible.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution for the following reasons: the brexit referendum has been a form of direct democracy and the european parliament shall respect the will of the british people. furthermore, we cannot keep in the union nations against their free will. the eu faces numerous challenges. we all have to improve the economy, to protect european values and to meet security challenges with an open visor. furthermore, i believe that the only solution to the current crisis is implementation of the principle of ‘ever closer union’ with common fiscal and tax policies, common migration and refugee policies, and last but not least, a common eu army and efficient security policies.
madam president, i have only three observations to add. first, it was not a victory for brexit as such. it was rather a victory of a campaign of disinformation and lies about the eu, which was presented in an absolutely distorted way, like a loch ness monster. the result, sadly, is more confusion. actually it is a limbo. the country remains divided. but we cannot continue in the same style. we need to address the fears and uncertainties of millions of our citizens and provide clear answers to questions about their identity, cultural continuity, economic justice and defence. second, now it is especially crucial to keep together in the issues that remain and one of them is mutual defence. the uk continues to be our ally in nato. the council plan for accelerated practical cooperation with nato is to be welcomed. in the new situation it is especially important to remain united in our common approaches toward russian aggression in defending the credibility of our own values. third, our best practical answer to the crisis is completing the digital single market. this means implementing, in two years’ time, the egovernment action plan, which will reduce red tape in bringing these public services to citizens. digital by default, digital cross-border and interoperability by default should become cornerstones of an open and connected europe.
in writing. – regardless of the instability and uncertainty created by the uk referendum, we must not forget to deal with other pressing matters of crucial importance, such as energy security of supply. we should not increase our dependency on russian gas by doubling the capacity of the nord stream pipeline. doing so would be extremely detrimental to our energy security since russia has demonstrated on countless occasions that it is not a reliable partner to the european union, and that it does not hesitate in wielding energy as a political weapon. now more than ever, we need greater unity among the remaining member states. for instance, we would have more bargaining power if we negotiated as a unified block, rather than individual states. the nord stream pipeline is currently used at only half of its capacity, and therefore the only logical reason to double the capacity is to be able to reroute all the gas that is transiting through ukraine. currently we do not have sufficient interconnectors to send enough gas from germany back to eastern member states. therefore, unity and solidarity amongst ourselves are our best tools if we are to avoid putting eastern member states in a precarious position.
in writing. - i did. the abolition of visa requirements will help to promote economic, political and cultural relations between the eu and peru.
in writing. - i did. the directive shall be supplemented in the light of new technologies, in particular with a view to protecting human health and the environment.
in writing. - i did. in the context of the refugee crisis, it is important to ensure the rapid social and economic integration of refugees into society. the report supports cooperation between member states in this area to promote equal opportunities and takes into account the health needs of refugees, different social backgrounds, housing needs, the high overall number of disabled people, the elderly and women, etc. the report calls for language learning systems, support for a national minimum wage for all and the importance of education.
in writing. - i did. to improve the economic situation, issues such as the protection of human rights, gender equality, good governance and sustainable development must be linked to economic activity and member states must make greater efforts in these areas. the eu is committed to and must deliver on its commitment to the consistent promotion and respect of human rights and democracy in its relations with third countries through all eu policies, including trade policy and all relevant eu external financing instruments.
in writing. - i did. the eu economy is slowing down, so a review of the trade strategy is essential. the creation of jobs and equal opportunities, honest business practices and new areas such as digital trade need to be promoted. investment inflows and outflows are important for economic growth and eu companies' rights need to be protected when they expand into third country markets. the coherence of the eu's trade objectives with the eu's external policy is also important.
in writing. - i did. the fight against trafficking in human beings requires cross-border cooperation to identify and confiscate money obtained through criminal activity, increased information exchange, increased financial and technical assistance and increased cooperation between police and law enforcement agencies (including europol, etc.), and it is also important to focus on helping victims and ensuring their safety.
mr president, i would say to mr timmermans that i admire his determination and what i would term his enthusiasm in presenting the commission’s programme at a difficult time. i will make some remarks. one of the main challenges for the next year remains that of increasing security threats. parliament’s resolution points out that common security and defence policy cannot remain the weakest link in the eu integration process. the gap between the official ambition to act as a geopolitical player and the real political capacity to do this still looms large. the eu cannot limit itself to the role of a good samaritan, taking care of the results of the middle east crisis instead of actively heeding its root causes. my second point is that continuing sanctions on russia is a question of principle until the minsk agreements are fully complied with. it is a crucial test of the eu’s credibility – the credibility of its value—based impact in the wider world. thirdly, i see positive moves on the digital market and e-governance, but let me point out that one of the best way to connect with citizens is by promoting in deeds – not just in intentions – cross—border and interoperable e-health, online business dealings and e—signatures. by the way, estonia saves a whole working week a year through e—signatures. i hope that by the next european elections an e—vote will be available for all eu citizens.
in writing. - i did. in addition to being an important energy partner for the eu, it is important to enhance cooperation between the eu and azerbaijan in other areas. the aim of the agreement is to promote people-to-people contacts which should benefit society as a whole. the eu must also continue to advocate for improvements in the situation of civil society actors and organisations in azerbaijan and uphold the fundamental principles of the rule of law, human rights and democracy in its relations with azerbaijan.
in writing. - i did. the surplus from the previous year's budget will be transferred to the 2016 budget, reducing member states' contributions to the eu budget this year. the additional resources should be used to address the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. one of the major obstacles in bringing european cybersecurity to the same level has been removed by putting in place the directive on a high common level of security of network and information systems across the union. cyber-threats do not stop at borders, nor do they discriminate between member states or infrastructures. europe needs to be prepared and be resilient at the highest level to counter cyber-threats. a common set of requirements and rules that apply to a range of infrastructure providers, including digital platforms, will help to establish a minimum level of preparedness across europe. i call upon the member states to adapt national legislations as soon as possible and with no delays beyond the foreseen 21 months. i urge the member states to update their cybersecurity strategies at the same time, and those member states that still do not have one to come forward with such a strategy with no further delay. adopting the nis directive will not only bring cybersecurity in europe to a new level, it also encourages crucial public-private partnerships and acts as a trust-building measure across member states and across infrastructure sectors.
in writing. - i did. in view of the rapid development of the ict sector, the strategic development plans of the member states, including the establishment of national competent authorities for monitoring network and information security, need to be harmonised in order to ensure security. the readiness of member states to respond to cyber incidents is important in the sectors related to banking, health and financial markets. the report also addresses the privacy of personal data and the readiness of member states to ensure a safe environment for online transactions.
in writing. - i did. the purpose of the energy label is to help citizens understand the environmental impact of products. however, the original directive needs to be supplemented to ensure greater energy efficiency and to include ict products and also to analyse their environmental impact.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. a better functioning and better equipped frontex has been needed for some time, but enhancing its capacities became urgent with the 2015 migration flows, where an estimated 1.5 million persons crossed the eu external borders illegally. the renewed frontex – european border and coast guard agency – will have greater powers and responsibilities, being able to provide assistance to any eu member state facing a disproportionate migratory pressure or any other challenge. it will have an obligatory pool of 1500 border guards and of technical equipment at its disposal that can be deployed within seven days whenever needed. it is also relevant that if a member state refuses to cooperate with the new agency, and its non-cooperation will jeopardize the functioning of the schengen zone, other member states can reintroduce, as a last resort, temporary border controls. i urge all the member states to fully cooperate with the agency and contribute to our common interest in protecting europe’s external borders.
in writing. - i did. the proposal provides for a new mandate for frontex, which will allow the agency to better coordinate search and rescue operations at the eu's external borders. the commission will also be responsible for the implementation of the eu's external action programme, which will be implemented by the european parliament and the council. it is also of the utmost importance to protect the human rights of refugees.
in writing. - i did. the proposal aims to enhance cooperation between the various member states and trans-eu authorities performing coast guard functions by giving more powers to the european maritime safety agency. cooperation will be pursued in areas such as search and rescue, border and customs controls, fisheries control, maritime safety and security and environmental protection. in addition, the competent authorities of the new european border and coast guard agency, the european fisheries control agency and the european maritime safety agency shall be coordinated, in particular in the field of monitoring and data exchange.
in writing. - i did. the aim of the proposal is to enable european maritime safety agencies to coordinate their maritime operations. the european fisheries control agency will be given more powers to organise the exchange of information between the relevant authorities of the member states. the agency shall help to coordinate maritime surveillance and to inspect prevention and control operations.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to strengthen the independence of the olaf secretariat and to make it more legitimate and effective. the secretariat of the olaf committee is therefore provided by the european commission, as proposed.
in writing. - i did. the revision of the multiannual financial framework is important in order to apply the resources in line with the priorities of the union that have changed over the years. member states have to deal with issues such as the refugee crisis, low financing, youth unemployment, internal security and other challenges that have been unforeseen in financial terms. the review of the financial framework is important to change and revise the allocation of eu resources.
in writing. ‒ the luxleaks and panama papers cases have demonstrated the need for the eu to address tax evasion, related fraud and aggressive tax planning. many member states do not apply the eu rules designed to reduce tax fraud and ensure that companies are taxed where their income is generated. the new measures emphasise the use of digital solutions and call on the commission to investigate all cases of illegal state aid.
in writing. - i did. the european structural and investment funds are multi-functional to avoid double funding and other bureaucratic processes associated with fund applications. new solutions are needed to ensure their effectiveness.
in writing. - i did. the recovery of the european economy has so far been modest and uneven, with unacceptably high levels of unemployment, poverty and inequality in many regions of the union and with younger generations often lacking prospects for the future. the eu must therefore strive for a dynamic and inclusive labour market, based on the european social market economy model, which contributes to improving the living and working conditions of citizens and allows for fair mobility. all eu citizens should be able to count on fair working conditions and access to quality education, social protection and essential services that allow a work-life balance and meet the needs of the modern eu labour market.
in writing. - i did. japan must follow the international court of justice's ruling and end industrial whaling, trade in whale products and unjustified whaling for so-called scientific purposes.
in writing. - i did. contrary to expectations, no improvement has been noted in belarus in the areas of human rights, civil society, international cooperation and nuclear safety, and it would therefore be prudent to postpone the provision of the eu guarantee in view of the upcoming elections in belarus.
in writing. - no, he didn't. the rejection of the proposal would prevent the application of the directive as drafted by the commission. the measure is aimed at financial institutions in crisis in the member states and consists of restoring the financial position of institutions and establishing a legal framework for resolution.
in writing. the strategy must reflect the changed security situation. in particular, it is important to pay attention to the eu's defence capability. it is high time to lay the foundations for an eu defence policy and to strengthen cooperation between the eu and nato. the fight against terrorism requires trust and exchange of information between member states. the eu must find a new breathing space in its relations with third countries, particularly those neighbouring it, in its efforts to maintain or achieve peace in those countries, and in its own relations with third countries, such as russia, etc.
madam president, ms mogherini, i support in principle your new strategy, however the challenge remains of how to balance what is principled and what is pragmatic. two-and-a-half years ago the european parliament called for a full and independent eu investigation into organ transplant abuses in china. parliament also called for the prosecution of people engaged in such criminal practices. last month the us congress strongly condemned the ongoing organ harvesting in china; and independent researchers have concluded that in one year up to 100 000 organ transplants are carried out. as there are practically no voluntary donors, the organs are taken from prisoners – predominantly prisoners of conscience. thousands, perhaps tens of thousands, of innocent people are being systematically killed to sell their organs for transplant to patients coming from the west. this amounts to crime against humanity. parliament also called for awareness raising on this dramatic issue among eu citizens travelling to china. so my question is: why has the will of the european parliament being ignored, both concerning independent investigation and with regard to informing citizens about this criminal business?
author. – madam president, may i just say how much your presence in human rights debates is welcome, madam high representative, because this is confirmation that we take human rights issues seriously. the rohingya minority is a special case for me, whose fate has not been fully understood or recognised. they have for long years not just been discriminated against, but have faced an existential danger. it is ominous and unacceptable that the whole ethnic group is not officially recognised in the country where a majority of them is living. they are not recognised as citizens of myanmar and are treated as not wanted. the new government in myanmar has decided to make national reconciliation their priority and therefore we call on them to provide the rohingya people with safety against any form of discrimination, to end impunity and to grant the rohingyas citizenship.
author. – madam president, the rohingyas have for decades suffered brutal oppression and discrimination. people have been fleeing myanmar, often perishing on the way, children and mothers dying because of lack of access to hospitals; children not registered upon birth have not been able to go to school and people have not been allowed to move freely. this needs to stop. for the first time in 50 years, myanmar has experienced a peaceful transfer of power to their first non-military president since 1962. it is a new possibility. myanmar must seize it. the government must make an effort. fighting has to cease and disputes need to be resolved through negotiation. the rohingya minority must be given citizenship and the discriminatory local orders in rakhine state must be abolished. and the european union must help and persuade the myanmar government to work on this matter, be it bilaterally through projects and agreements or through asean.
in writing. - i did. a number of proposals are made to take account of the un session in various areas. the aim is to make the eu's collective voice heard at the un, given that the eu and its member states are the largest contributors to the un system.
in writing. - i did. disabled people have the right to live in a society where they are guaranteed equal opportunities with others. the report highlights that the latter member states must complete the ratification of the un convention and, as an example to the member states, the eu institutions must apply equal opportunities practices for all, including in terms of work, staff regulations and general accessibility.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to prevent misleading information about foods intended for children and adolescents.
mr president, the wholesale electricity markets were designed for a different time – a time where there were no renewable energies, or there was much less renewable energy and technology. the current design is clearly not fit for the integration of more renewables into the market. it is not bringing the necessary flexibility for the market to function properly. innovation provides us with new solutions that make it possible to bring that flexibility: automatic switches; new storage solutions; and also data—driven solutions like data hubs or platforms. digital solutions are crucial, for instance, to send the right price signals for making demand and response work. the new market design needs to be innovation-driven and to provide a smarter way of storing and using power. this is important for the market participants as well as energy consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. security, interconnectivity, inter-operability and energy efficiency form the core of european energy market, and we have to further work towards achieving a fully integrated european energy market that would be built on innovative approaches, ensuring cross-border competition and empowering consumers. electricity must flow freely to where it is most needed and wanted. i especially welcome that the report calls on new and innovative approaches for smart grids and interconnectivity and on empowering decentralised generators, prosumers and consumers. this will ensure diversification of supply chains, make our systems less dependent on external energy resources and also increase conscious energy consumption. i support the notion of some pilot projects across europe that could then be applied across the member states. we need good and new innovative approaches to production and distribution. lastly, a functioning internal energy market is only viable when member states play by the same rules, act in solidarity and ensure a swift implementation of needed measures.
mr president, i really want to say that, day after day, the situation in turkey is reminding me and other people of my age, who lived in the socialist system, of the days of the beginning of stalinist terror. but i suppose that, now, we are able to learn from history and to stop this development in turkey. the world listened last week to the outcry of noble prize winner orhan pamuk, who said that turkey is, day after day, moving further from the rule of law towards a terror regime – and, really, that is what we have to bear in mind, the fact that orhan pamuk and intellectuals and democrats in turkey need our help. they are looking to us. we understand that ms mogherini, as high representative of the union for foreign and security policy, has to do her job, and she is doing it with great dignity, but she has her limits. we as a parliament do not have such limits. we have to send a high-level fact-finding mission, consisting of representatives of the committees on legal affairs and on civil liberties and of other committees, to turkey, to look at the situation of human rights and political freedoms there and to bring back information so that we can have a real reconsideration of our policy. concerning visa liberalisation: visas are put in passports, but in a country which deliberately cancels passports there is no real place for liberalisation. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to wish everybody good evening. it has been a long day for all of us but i believe that those who have actually stayed here – and i see madam commissioner joining us – and had the courage and stamina to stay here into the late evening are the true friends of the budget. i have the honour of presenting to you the council’s position on the draft budget of the european union for the year 2017, which was adopted yesterday by the council. i would like to begin by stating clearly that the main thrust of the council’s position is the prioritisation of expenditure. this means that we wish to finance adequately investments to spur growth and jobs, for example through the european fund for strategic investments, and to provide sufficient funding to tackle the still ongoing migration crisis and the related external policies. at the same time, it is the council’s express wish to create sufficient margins to enable us to cope with unforeseen situations that we will surely have to face into 2017. in our view, the annual budget is an expression of our solidarity, the solidarity which goes internally amongst the member states, and the citizens as well as externally towards third countries, which is a common goal that we all share. therefore, the eu budget should concentrate on the main objectives of the eu and on benefiting our citizens. let me now explain to you how the council looked at priorities and the guiding principles. these priorities, which were reflected in the thinking by the member states and the council, translate into concrete guiding principles that were applied when adopting the council’s position on the draft budget for 2017. first, tackling the refugee crisis is a key priority, and hence so is the financing for migration and related external policies. therefore, heading 3 – security and citizenship, which funds policies on tackling the migration and refugee crisis, benefits from a significant increase of 4.9% in commitments and 24.4% in payment appropriations compared to 2016. the council has accepted in full all appropriations destined for the programmes and agencies dealing with the crisis, including the use of the flexibility instrument for an amount of eur 530 million and the contingency margin for an amount of eur 1.14 billion. in total, the council has agreed an amount of eur 3 billion, which goes mainly to the asylum, migration and integration fund, to the internal security fund, to emergency assistance and to the related agencies such as frontex, easo and europol. in heading 4 – global europe, the council undertook a thorough analysis in order to identify space for creating the necessary margin since the commission’s proposal for 2017 has completely exhausted the margin for commitments. the overall increase in commitments remains at 1.74%, compared to 2016. programmes and instruments related to the migration crisis and the facility for refugees in turkey were not affected by reductions. so you can see that the council stands fully behind the european agenda on migration, as was agreed between us in 2015. second, a priority and concern for all of us is the creation of jobs and growth. subheading 1a – competitiveness for growth and jobs, therefore increases overall by almost 9% in both commitments and payment appropriations compared to 2016. the council protects and supports the budget for instruments that spur growth and thereby create jobs, namely such instruments as efsi, cosme, erasmus+ and others. subheading 1a, however, has also contributed to the general savings effort concerning some budget lines where the council considers, following a detailed technical analysis, that the commission has overestimated the real needs. concerning subheading 1b – economic, social and territorial cohesion, which is another core policy of the european union for the creation of growth and jobs, the council proposes limited reductions of payment appropriations on new programmes of eur 199 million. however, the council has not reduced appropriations dedicated to the previous programming period, 2007—2013, and to the treatment of the backlog of unpaid bills. that deadlock should be fully resolved by the end of this year in accordance with the payment plan. before concluding, let me briefly address the issue of heading 5 –administration. as you all know – and i think parliament has been part of this deal – 2017 is the last year for institutions to achieve the goal of reducing their statutory staff by 5%. frankly, the council and the member states are very concerned to note that not all institutions will achieve that goal. therefore the council has made it very clear in a statement that it expects that all efforts will be deployed to avoid any additional delays in implementing this jointly-agreed reduction target. in conclusion, as you can see, in an effort to find the right balance between, on the one hand, a sustainable budget in times of budgetary constraints throughout europe and, on the other hand, financing essential political priorities, the council has identified areas where savings are reasonable and necessary. in those areas that cannot be qualified as top political priorities in the current circumstances, reductions in the proposal of the commission have been made in a careful fashion in order not to harm programmes that perform well and are coming up to speed. in doing so we have followed the council’s budget guidelines for 2017. let me express my hope and confidence that we will find a common path to securing a reasonable and sustainable budget that will bring maximum benefits for all our fellow citizens. above all, i hope that our debate on this important but technical matter will pave the way to a successful compromise based on mutual respect and understanding and shared goals and concerns.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, as mr hudák has just said, those who are most committed to the european budget are in this chamber and i see mr arthuis among them. on the discussion of the council reading on the commission’s proposal, i want to start from where we are clearly in alignment. there is a commonality of purpose which is to make sure that our budget for 2017 is aligned with our two top priorities: investment in jobs and growth and dealing with migration, refugees and security. we are clearly more in alignment on one of these priorities – migration, refugees and security – on which the commission proposal has been fully endorsed in the reading of council. however, there are some discrepancies in views and i want to concentrate on the logic behind what the commission has proposed and to defend our proposal. regarding investment in jobs and growth, we have dedicated nearly half – 47.4% – of the budget to that, which includes an increase vis-à-vis 2016 of 7%. we have done that consciously, taking into account the status of our economies and we have looked very carefully into each and every budget line. for that reason, we were quite underwhelmed by the reading of the council on heading 1a, where, on competitiveness, jobs and growth, there are proposed cuts of eur 400 million. this means 52% of the cuts that council is proposing falling on an area that i do not think any one of us can disagree is important for europe. i would point to some of these cuts, for example in research, at a time when we need to stimulate innovation and make sure that european researchers are coming close to the real economy. we were surprised to see that there are proposed cuts for some large—scale projects for which there is very high demand, like transport and energy, galileo and copernicus. some of these cuts are just very bad use of the knife, in terms of the consequences of the costs we would then incur. if, in galileo, you build the satellite but you do not shoot it up, you have to store it and pay for its storage. similarly, i would express a bit of concern that there is some mechanical cutting when it comes to some of the heading 3 small programmes like health, smes and dialogue with citizens, or cuts in global europe – eur 62 million in cuts – when we know that, if anything, we have to do more to address the root causes of poverty, and thus of wars, refugees and migration. i would say, from the bottom of my heart, that i have sympathy for the council in terms of keeping us on the straight and narrow when it comes to administrative cost. we are very mindful that every day we have to look into what we spent on administration, with an eye to economising: and we do that. i can tell you that – line by line – we are cutting every budget line that is not driven upwards by natural forces. but to demand from us that we go beyond the 5% staff cut, by introducing an additional reduction, i do not find very wise because we are committed to the 5% cut: we are executing the 5% cut while undertaking more responsibilities, and we motivate our staff by telling them we are cutting as much as we have promised – no less, but also no more. on payment appropriations, there is a very important point for the council to take into account, namely that in 2016, unfortunately, some of the new programmes are underperforming and therefore the absorption rate in payments is lower than projected. this on its own is a problem, but it also creates a problem for 2017, when we anticipate that some of these non-materialising payments could come knocking on the door. therefore we would argue very strongly for the council to revisit this position. we are not proposing a proportionate increase in 2017 equal to the underspending in 2016. we are sticking to where we are, but it would be unwise to attempt a further reduction. finally, i want once again to make a clear statement on our commitment to monitor implementation. we are grateful to parliament and to the council for your engagement with us to make sure that we constantly improve our capacity to project what is necessary and to correct our course so we can use money in the wisest possible manner. we are keen to continue to work with council, and of course with parliament, so that the 2017 budget becomes a reality on time. if we remember last year’s experience, we actually got it five days before the deadline: so why not repeat that this year?
rapporteur. – mr president, my thanks to the slovak presidency, which communicated its decisions. as usual, our treaties and rules of procedure guide us with tremendous force through the unknown seas of the bermuda triangle, where both co-legislators and honest brokers can get lost. the end of the story seems to be that no one will be happy but there is no one to be blamed, or actually the name of the game is normally to blame another institution. however, this year we are trying to chart a different course together with my dear colleague and main rapporteur, mr geier. we will not blame anybody but ourselves, and that is taking a whole lot of responsibility, perhaps even a bit too much. about administrative costs, i must admit, under the circumstances prescribed by the treaties and numerous rules and practices, it is quite a stressful situation to be responsible for something you cannot actually really change or can change only cosmetically. whatever direction you try to take, there are obstacles called ‘interinstitutional agreement’, ‘staff regulations’, ‘establishment plan’ etc., but the ultimate barrier is the so-called ‘gentlemen’s agreement’. i have been wondering who exactly those gentlemen were because it would be lovely to meet them and discuss whether their agreement is still up to date, but those thoughts are a matter for another discussion. a few comments now on the council position on other sections. as i pointed out at the first trilogue, i am thoroughly unable to find common sense or reason in the council’s wish to cut the appropriations for the european court of justice and also for the data protection supervisor. please allow me to illustrate it briefly. as far as i understand, the evidence shows that the european court of justice did ask for an increase of 12 judges to cope with its growing workload, yet it was given 28 by the council, most likely because the council was unable to tame the atavist instincts of the member states, hence each state was given an additional judge regardless of whether this was necessary. in so doing, the council pushed up so-called organisational costs in the budget but now, with its other hand, it wants to reduce the substantial side of the court’s budget, thereby hampering its ability to deal with its principal tasks. that is why as a rapporteur i intend to restore the original estimated lines promptly. data protection is a hotly debated topic. indeed, it is full of controversy and paradoxes. we all have two hands here, and quite frequently we use one of them to vote for more data protection and against american and other possible surveillance of our data. having done that, quite a number of us voluntarily put an activity tracker on the other hand, sending, via our apps and internet use, all sorts of data to the american private companies, such as how many steps do we make per day or what we had for lunch, or perhaps even what our heartbeat is while having sex. we can only hope that those companies deal carefully with our data. so once we have decided to have a small agency to supervise european data protection, it is really unwise to cut the financial resources it has to do that. to conclude, i would like to thank the partners in the budgetary process. the process has enabled me to meet extremely professional officials, wonderful and creative colleagues in various institutions whose experience and goodwill and devotion to europe has brought us here. i am sure we will have a budget in 2017.
in writing. – it is a good sign that president juncker’s speech brought the eu out of brexit depression. the eu clearly has capacity and resolve to continue, and even strengthen itself. expanding the strategic investments fund is to be supported. especially relevant is the understanding that the eu cannot remain a soft power in international politics. the eu is deplorably absent in syrian peace efforts and therefore needs its own strategy for solving middle eastern conflicts. we need to concentrate on healing the roots of both the middle eastern conflicts as well as migration from africa. restoring support and trust of eu citizens means concentrating on basics – that is completing the single market in deeds, not in declarations, bringing to a conclusion international free trade agreements and starting to treat member states’ meeting of their commitments without making any exceptions.
in writing. what happens in europe's neighbourhood inevitably affects the eu's internal security, so both must be dealt with very seriously. we have to deal with the problem of foreign fighters, the financing of terrorism and radicalisation. the eu's borders must be controlled, because the eu must be able to monitor its border crossing, register all those entering and also share this information with each other. strengthening europol is of the utmost importance. eu defence policy must go forward a clear plan is needed. improve cooperation between eu member states on eu defence policy, including permanent structured defence cooperation, enhance eu-nato cooperation, simplify and make arms policy and the market more transparent. it is also essential that eu member states should be obliged to allocate 2% of gdp to defence expenditure.
in writing. - i did. the conclusion of the protocol follows the accession of croatia to the eu. this is beneficial for both parties in terms of both the internal market and free movement.
in writing. - i did. due to the institutional changes brought about by the lisbon treaty, it is also important to review the practice of high-level consultations between the eu institutions and eu labour market actors. the summit will be held twice a year, as it is already de facto. the summit provides an opportunity for the social partners to contribute to the various components of the union's growth and jobs strategy.
in writing. - i did. the aim of the negotiations is to harmonise the technical conditions for inland waterway vessels in the eu in order to ensure the safety and efficiency of the vehicles. it is also important that the technical condition of the vessels comply with the rules of the european committee for the standardization of inland navigation.
in writing. - i did. negotiations between the eu and the seven sadc member states angola, botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, swaziland and the republic of south africa have been completed and are ready for the conclusion of the agreement. the agreement ensures duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market and compliance with wto rules. the agreement should contribute to enhancing sustainable economic growth and deepening interregional trade. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and sound public finances.
in writing. - i did. the convention covers the rights and protection of workers in the fisheries sector. it takes account of the specific nature of the workplace and calls for greater attention to be paid to ensuring decent working and living conditions for ship's crews. it is important that the other eu member states, in addition to estonia and france, ratify the convention.
in writing. - i did. the resolution calls on poland to respect european principles and to respect democratic legislation in the light of recent complex events. it is important to end the constitutional crisis in poland, to guarantee freedom of the press and media and to enter into dialogue with the opposition leaders.
in writing. ‒ regretfully, the european union has to deal with the human rights issues of some member states. i support the indignation reflected in the resolution and also raise concerns that the political leadership of an eu member state shows little respect to basic principles of the union. european institutions should be provided with better tools to influence individual member states’ policies in order to protect democracy and human rights.
in writing. - i did. the security and socioeconomic situation in tunisia is complex, but the country has made progress towards the process of democratization. the report approves the provision of financial assistance to tunisia and the opening of negotiations for a comprehensive free trade agreement. it is good that the eu and tunisia have increased cooperation in the fight against terrorism. it is also important to cooperate more closely with europol.
in writing. - no, he didn't. the report recommends setting a trans-eu under-payment rate, which is a threat to small and medium-sized enterprises. different pay scales are conducive to intra-eu and global competitiveness and are important for smes to contribute to the eu economy.
in writing. ‒ the commitment of the commission to establish a pillar of social rights is welcomed. social, especially wage disparities between eastern, western and southern parts of the eu are deplorable. therefore i fully support the recommendation of the report regarding the establishment of wage floors in the form of a national minimum wage and the objective of attaining at least 60% of the respective national average wage.
in writing. ‒ i supported the postponement of the entry into force of the regulation. the act is contrary to the original objectives of facilitating a more transparent use of investment products by eu citizens and therefore needs to be further supplemented.
madam president, one important point that we seem to be forgetting is that when we talk about competition law, state aid rules are in place for a reason. because once a company receives government support, a tax exemption, it gains a competitive advantage over the others. therefore, not only do the state aid rules need to remain the exception rather than the rule, they also need to be applied across the board. people seem to be discovering this point only because we have a good competition commissioner. beyond this point, what i want to stress is that i do not think that tax competition is a problem. tax complexity is a problem. as long as there are exemptions available within very complex systems then big companies will be able to abuse them, and use the exemptions that the others cannot use, thus avoiding paying the taxes that others have to pay.
the esteemed commissioner thyssen! i am very pleased to have you with us today, as you are also involved in the european skills strategy. the link between the labour market and skills development and education is one of the most important points in the european parliament's recommendations, which we have strongly emphasised. as a social scientist, i would like to highlight one more aspect. in the digital revolution we're facing, there's already a new group that needs to be looked at. these are people over 45 who are no longer very young, but not very old either. and studies show that their digital skills are dropping off sharply, compared to those under 30 and those in their early 30s. this is where retraining is especially important. in my own country, estonia, the ministry of labour has launched a preventive retraining programme to give workers whose profession is currently in danger of disappearing because of the digital revolution the opportunity to prepare early to move with the times and to find new skills. hopefully this aspect will be included in the recommendations we are working on. i also want to say that i am very embarrassed that the presidency is not here. i hope that during the estonian presidency such things will not happen.
when the european union expanded eastwards a decade ago, eastern europeans were very enthusiastic. we believed that with the european union, an area of freedom and prosperity would also expand. but the global economic crisis has undermined our belief that the new members will soon be able to achieve western levels of prosperity. but despite this, we struggled, we cut back, we suffered to meet the high european standards and to keep the budget balanced. hoping that sooner or later we'll catch up. you just have to get through the tough times. life has once again confirmed that the patience of eastern europeans, which we have acquired through difficult historical events, is far from being shared by all members of the european family. and today, in order to strengthen our union, to counter radicalism, to minimise the damage caused by brexit, we need to develop common social standards. the ambitious european project lacks a social dimension. we need to find a common formula, a common understanding of what adequate income is, and establish a common standard for minimum income. we need solidarity not only in foreign policy but also in the fight against terrorism, the fight against poverty and begging, which threaten our union every day.
mr president, i would like to thank renate weber for the excellent job she has done. the employment equality directive bans discrimination on the grounds of religion or belief. can we use this act to justify a ban on wearing headscarves in the workplace or other religious symbols? many meps believe that we can – for security reasons, for instance, or because this is a symbol of oppression. the european court of justice found such bans permissible if all religious symbols are prohibited in a particular workplace. in spite of that, i would remind you that even a neutrally expressed requirement might lead to unlawful discrimination, for instance if employers deliberately introduce obstacles to the employment of members of particular religious groups. in this context, muslim woman are particularly vulnerable. democratic states should not dictate to us what to wear. european values have nothing to do with fashion. security considerations are hardly relevant in the context of headscarves. the free will of women, whether it is determined by personal, cultural or religious reasons, should be respected. i will finish my speech by reminding you that tolerance is one of the main european values.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by reiterating the solidarity of the european union with the people and the government of the philippines following the abu sayyaf attack in the city of davao on 2 september. since the beginning of the term of president duterte there has been progress – or at lease continuity – in some important areas. an indefinite ceasefire with the national democratic front was concluded, the peace process in mindanao has been reinvigorated and the ratification of the partnership cooperation agreement (pca) is ongoing. these positive steps are overshadowed by the war on drugs declared by the president. the fight against drugs was the number one promise in president duterte’s election campaign and remains highly popular. he also promised the reinstatement of the death penalty. according to the latest official figures, there have been more than 2 400 people killed either during or outside police operations between 1 july and 4 september. against the background of these figures, in various statements we have expressed our significant consensus in several meetings with high-ranking officials. however, necessary responses to the drug problem must be carried out in full compliance with human rights, the rule of law and the right to due process. we have also reiterated our principal position on the death penalty. president duterte has repeatedly expressed his administration’s commitment to human rights and he has warned the police against any abuse of authority. in the coming weeks and months there will be several high-level meetings with the philippines to discuss this further and to share our concerns. we will be alert to see how president duterte’s commitments on human rights are applied. the high representative, federika mogherini, is expected to meet with her counterpart twice over the coming weeks. the gsp+ monitoring mission is scheduled for before the end of the year. we will hear – and this is more or less in answer to a question – and we will underline that during the next monitoring period, 2016 to 2017, we have strong expectations that the philippines will strengthen its human rights legal framework. following the entry into force of the pca, we will engage in a formal human rights dialogue. we are also looking at ways to provide further support to the philippines in a comprehensive approach to combat drug trafficking in line with our shared values. and, of course, we will continue to work closely with the filipinos on this and other issues. of course, i would like to congratulate the authors for their work and for this very productive discussion in this political body.
author. – mr president, somalia’s position is a strategic one. restoring stability and securing this region from terrorist attacks is especially vital after two decades of civil war and al—shabab terrorism. the country is on the right path out of crisis now, but nothing is yet guaranteed. the 30 august and 26 july terrorist attacks in mogadishu show that al—shabab is still active. therefore, efficient support for the positive political process that was launched four years ago is needed. it is still a long way to the 2020 elections. political parties have yet to be started, but first of all the inclusion of all interested actors, freedom of expression and the creation of an independent human rights commission will be vital. the continued presence of african union peacekeeping forces will be important as the security situation remains precarious in different parts of the country. as our report says, there cannot be security without development and development without security. to break this cycle there need to be joint efforts by the eu and the international community.
in writing. - i did. in a context of high immigration, the eu cannot afford to have a travel document issued in the eu that is outdated, unrecognised by other countries because of its poor quality or for some other reason. common standards for return documents in the eu member states are elementary and need to be implemented without delay. similarly, it is high time that eu member states start exchanging information on issued travel documents and on third-country nationals without travel documents.
in writing. - i did. the regulation aims to ensure investor protection and market efficiency, while enhancing the efficiency of the single capital market. the provision of information necessary to enable investors to make an informed investment decision, in accordance with the nature of the issuer and the securities, together with the rules on business conduct, ensures the protection of investors. moreover, that information is an effective tool for building confidence in securities, thereby contributing to the proper functioning and development of securities markets. the publication of a prospectus is an appropriate way to make this information available.
in writing. - i did. the decision provides for the possibility for the eu to take measures in relation to the resettlement of syrian refugees from turkey. it is important that people seeking asylum can do so in a legal and safe way.
in writing. ‒ the situation regarding massive inflows remains critical. already in the first months of 2016 thousands of people were entering greece from turkey daily. it should be stressed that the refugee crisis is a european problem and therefore requires efforts from all member states. solidarity with member states who experience the highest pressure is necessary. this decision should provide some relief to greece and italy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. last year, parliament presented the same report and it was completely ignored by the council. fighting unemployment, especially youth unemployment, remains a major concern across europe and, although it is the member states implementing the requisite policies, a constructive dialogue between the institutions must take place to address this issue. the report underlines the need for a holistic approach to tackling unemployment and reducing poverty levels. it calls for the realisation of the objectives set in europe 2020 and notes with concern that these have not yet been met. in that regard, calling for reductions in the 2017 budget to fight youth employment by cutting the budget line for the youth guarantee from eur 6 billion to eur 2 billion, as proposed by the commission, is a grave mistake. i call upon the council to join with parliament to reject such cuts. meaningful employment policies accompanied by relevant and up-to-date life-long learning schemes must enable barrier-free access to first employment, ensure a balanced work and family life, offer measures for successful re-employment when needed and reduce poverty in employment.
in writing. - i did. the european employment strategy has an important role to play in promoting future economic, social and employment policies. the broad guidelines provide member states with a detailed overview and guidance for the implementation of their reform agendas and focus, inter alia, on the following priorities: increasing labour force participation, promoting lifelong learning and social inclusion, and combating poverty.
in writing. - i did. the convention on trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora is important to protect the conservation of endangered species in the wild. by becoming a party to the convention and participating in its activities, the eu will contribute to the promotion of environmental policy and international trade regulation, and to the wider engagement in the policies of sustainable development under the un 2030 agenda.
in writing. - i did. postal services have changed significantly over the years, paper-based correspondence has decreased and postal service providers are offering broadband services at lower prices. the directive contributes to the completion of the common market for the management of postal parcels.
in writing. - i did. smes are an important part of the eu economy, so it is important to make their funding opportunities more efficient. the report addresses the capacity of smes to obtain bank loans, as the most reliable form of financing for smes, and the reduction of barriers to other non-bank sources.
in writing. - i did. smes create more jobs in the eu than other private sector enterprises. the report calls on member states to avoid over-regulation, which hinders the competitiveness of companies and the creation of jobs. it also points out that in order to achieve an enabling environment for business development and to increase the potential for job creation, national and european policies need to focus on skills, their scarcity and non-compliance or on the outflow of educated and skilled people and the preferential position of multinational enterprises.
in writing. - i did. the eu values the principle of equal treatment, but there is still a need to do more to reduce discrimination in this area. the report calls for greater attention to be paid to people with disabilities, religious beliefs, age and other aspects that are important for a democratic europe. work needs to be done to strengthen dialogue between governments, civil society and social partners on all causes of discrimination and to raise public awareness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the european globalisation adjustment fund aiming to reduce the negative effects of large-scale redundancies and following job losses can be seen as a valuable tool bringing european added value to ensure re-employment. some problems have occurred over the years and need further tackling. i welcome the efforts made to reduce the lengthy bureaucracy in processing the files by the european commission. i welcome the shortened deadlines and clear timelines presented. the threshold of 500 is a step in the needed direction, but it still leaves smaller member states where smes and bigger companies mostly do not reach this number out of the scope. despite some possibilities to bypass this threshold, it should be further reviewed. lastly, the re-employment rate is at 49% and 41% of re-employed individuals claim to be in worse conditions. this is a serious matter that the member states jointly with the private sector and educational institutions need to find a better solution for. efficient national measures must compliment the egf to enable people to swiftly find a new job at a more or less same level.
in writing. - i did. the egf is important for redundant workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic downturn. actions financed by the fund shall contribute to the return of the unemployed to the labour market through an individualised and flexible approach.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i understand i have to speak as slowly as possible to give the commissioner time to arrive at least by the end of the debate. so i will do my best. on behalf of the alde group i would like to welcome this very important oral question regarding a serious integrity problem in sports. in modern english, match-fixing is normally understood as the act of arranging the outcome of a match even before it has been actually played. it is obvious that match-fixing is widespread internationally, and this problem also concerns illegal gambling and organised crime. match-fixing is a way of undermining fair sport. it is also a great temptation for sportspersons and a great threat to those of them who have to resist pressure from criminals. chris eaton, director of sport integrity at the international centre for sport security has said that football is in a disastrous state, with the fixing of matches for the purposes of criminal gambling and fraud absolutely endemic worldwide. it is a daily occurrence. however, this is a problem not only for football, but also for other sports as well. on the regional level, we would like to highlight the council of europe convention on the manipulation of sports competitions. we call all on all member states to ratify it immediately, if they have not done so already. furthermore, member states should establish match-fixing as specific criminal offence and ensure that match-fixing and corruption in sport are subject to judicial proceedings. we would like also to stress the importance of data sharing between sports bodies, public authorities and licensed betting operators. it is essential to detect, investigate and prosecute all forms of match-fixing. last but not least, we believe that it is hard to overestimate the importance of an awareness-raising campaign, which also may assist us to fight match-fixing. we are looking forward to receiving the commission’s response to this question and a concrete proposal from the commission on how match-fixing can be tackled efficiently in the union.
in writing. - i did. the decision to conclude the paris agreement sends a clear signal that tackling climate change is a priority for the eu. the paris agreement sets out the important objectives to which the eu will jointly commit itself when taking action to combat climate change. it is also important that eu member states ratify this agreement as soon as possible.
in writing. - i did. the island of ionia was badly damaged by an earthquake last year. the eu solidarity fund aims to respond flexibly to crisis situations and to support the population of affected regions. the financial assistance to greece is essential to effectively restore the island's order of life, infrastructure and cultural heritage.
in writing. - i did. the decline in the market share of phones running microsoft windows forced microsoft to lay off staff. this measure concerns 1441 redundant workers and is designed to help them return to the labour market.
in writing. - i did. due to changes in world trade, ericsson was forced to make a number of redundancies. the aim of the measure is to support their return to the labour market through education and training, vocational guidance and job search support.
in writing. - i did. the purpose of the directive is to lay down common minimum standards in the conduct of criminal proceedings. the commission will take steps to harmonise the practice of different member states in the area of procedural rights in criminal proceedings, so that the right to quality and free legal aid is equally accessible to all suspects and accused persons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005, concerning trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, offers a balanced approach and ensures that human rights serve as the underlying principle. i welcome that the member states are given flexibility to apply stricter controls and additional measures. one of the major improvements constitutes also the possibility for competent authorities to share information with national preventive mechanisms under the optional protocol to the un convention against torture. better coordination and informing each other is necessary to be up to date on the situation around the world, especially regarding authoritarian states. we need to be willing and able to share information concerning trading goods which fall under this regulation to avoid any conscious participation in capital punishment, torture and other cruel, in human or degrading treatment or punishment.
in writing. - i did. the eu wants to introduce stricter requirements on trade in certain goods that could be used to carry out the death penalty or torture. the relevant regulation needs to be updated in order to further strengthen the eu's global action in the fight against the death penalty and the abolition of torture.
in writing. ‒ the 2005 anti-torture regulation contained loopholes. although the regulation banned certain equipment which could be used for torture or the death penalty, its transit through the eu territory was permitted. with these amendments, this loophole is closed. aside from transit, the marketing and promotion of this equipment is also prohibited. these are important steps forward into enforcing the total ban on torture and the death penalty.
in writing. - i remained neutral. it is reasonable for china and the eu to maintain cooperation on a permanent basis, and the proposal includes a strategic cooperation agreement, including in areas related to illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings and other areas. however, the agreement does not respect the european parliament's supervisory function, which must be respected and taken into account when such agreements are concluded in the future.
in writing. ‒ the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china will contribute to crime prevention and investigation, especially transnational and organised crime, drug trafficking and trafficking in human beings, and money laundering. it does not include the exchange of personal data. this type of strategic cooperation is in the best interests of europe and european citizens. such cooperation cannot be halted or suspended for purely political or ideological reasons.
in writing. - i did. the so-called cotonou agreement expires in february 2020 and the eu's relationship with the acp countries must be given a new foundation. over 80% of the world's ldcs are located in the acp regions, and eu-acp cooperation covers political, economic and development cooperation, so the continuation of the bilateral agreement is of great importance. the renewed agreement sets the overarching objective of combating poverty and inequality, calls for new sustainable development directions and stronger monitoring mechanisms.
in writing. – it is clear that, after the end of their mandate, past commissioners retain influence and connections from their previous position. the commission offers them a very generous transitional allowance so that they can preserve their integrity, but unfortunately a considerable number of past commissioners have given in to the temptation of monetising their influence; this phenomenon being so widespread that it already has a name, the ‘revolving door’. siim kallas was allowed by the commission to take up the position of special advisor to commissioner dombrovskis, and a position in the private software company nortal. although kallas had a duty to refrain from lobbying the commission on nortal’s behalf, he had, in his position as an advisor, unfettered access to the commission while being on the payroll of a company on whose behalf he theoretically couldn’t lobby. during his first term as commissioner he set up the european transparency initiative which eventually led to the first lobby register. in an ironic twist of fate the same man who once helped to create the transparency rules and lobby registry was simultaneously advisor to the commission and on the payroll of a private company, which wasn’t even in the transparency register.
mr president, in this debate, i want to stress one important thing. before, consumers travelled abroad and had a fear of big bills when they used their phone. now, this fear will be eliminated if the roaming charges are abolished and there is no limitation of days. more consumption definitely means more revenues, so nobody can deny that everybody will benefit from this. this is why the fair use clause needs to be really fair for all parties involved. however, i want to stress that we have to keep in mind what our end goal is. our end goal is not to introduce different checks on where people live and ip addresses and requests for documents; our end goal is to have a single market for telecom services. we have to keep this in mind.
mr president, the european council will also discuss eu-russia relations. since the restrictive measures against russia were introduced in 2014, nothing has changed for the better with regard to russian actions in ukraine. the sanctions must remain in place until the reasons they were introduced are gone. the minsk agreements, of course, must be implemented, and the council should not forget the mh17 flight catastrophe. the european council also needs to address the issue of russian duma elections in the russian—occupied crimea and produce a clear vision on how it plans to handle those duma deputies that are considered elected from crimea. also, i would once again like to point to the fact that the eu must have one voice when talking to russia. the commission and the external action service should therefore represent the eu common position in relations with russia.
in writing. – i am appalled by the news that the uk government plans to introduce lists of foreign citizens working in the uk. should they as the next step also start wearing an emblem on the shoulder to be noticeable? the uk has been a highly respected, although sometimes a difficult eu member state. while regretting the outcome of the referendum, the eu is ready to negotiate on fair terms. now it looks as if the uk has taken the approach of nothing to lose and has decided to mock european principles, ridicule and hinder eu plans for closer cooperation and, worst of all, punish equally europeans and its own citizens. this is not responsible behaviour. i call on the uk to stop such bullying of the eu. attempts to conduct an appeasement policy towards russia have failed. together with the syrian dictator assad, the russian military is massacring in syria what is left to massacre. it is highly concerning that a major military exercise, practising total war and nuclear attack, is taking place in russia. the conclusion must be that eu cannot sink deeper in trying to accommodate itself to putin’s aggressive politics. a state responsible for committing systematic war crimes cannot be the eu’s partner. instead, the eu and the us should take joint action to end the war in syria.
in writing. - i did. the convention is essential to ensure that international child abduction cases are resolved as quickly and effectively as possible. the accession of peru to the convention is welcome and will therefore allow for better protection of children associated with the peruvian community in the future.
in writing. - i did. the convention is essential to ensure that international child abduction cases are resolved as quickly and effectively as possible. the council decision authorises the member states to give their consent to the accession of kazakhstan in order to enable the convention to enter into force between the eu and kazakhstan.
in writing. - i did. the convention is essential to ensure that international child abduction cases are resolved as quickly and effectively as possible. the council decision authorises the member states to give their consent to the accession of korea in order to enable the convention to enter into force between the eu and korea.
in writing. - i did. as things stand, one in three people in the world suffers from some form of malnutrition. about 161 million children worldwide suffer from chronic malnutrition. the eu produces 88 million tonnes of food waste a year, while 12% of the world's population is hungry. it is essential to adapt food systems in order to end food loss and food waste. eu member states and the commission must also focus on the developmental relevance of policies and assess the impact of trade, agriculture, energy and other policies on global food security.
in writing. - i did. the creation of a european public prosecutor's office is essential to ensure that the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud are uniform across all eu member states.
mr president, all these years and even now, people from syria have been asking for certain elementary things. they are not just asking for resolutions that deplore or condemn. human beings in this man—made hell are asking for no-fly zones and safety areas, in addition to humanitarian aid. a no-fly zone over aleppo immediately – that is the solution. russia has proved not to be part of the solution, but part of the problem. putin’s interest clearly is not to fight isis, but to support his crony, the syrian dictator. but the main problem is that you cannot solve such a crisis with the help of people responsible for war crimes, barrel bombs, poison gas, levelling hospitals and killing – just now – hundreds of children. the result is an orwellian understanding of peace. in the words of john kerry, ‘where they make a desert, they call it peace’. the crucial problem for the eu now is that we have still not decided to do something concrete and have left the scene open for destructive forces that care only about their own self-interest. my colleague, mr telička, this morning told us that we have shown too many yellow cards – i would add including the one mr obama waved three years ago. what we need now is a red card: that is strategic sanctions against russia and calling this thing what it is – a crime against humanity.
in writing. the continuing killing of civilians and the bombing of hospitals in the syrian city of aleppo must stop immediately. it is extremely regrettable that russia is not willing to help with the ceasefire in aleppo, to deliver humanitarian aid to those in need and to allow civilians to leave safely. the eu foreign ministers are due to meet in october to come up with a plan to help bring peace and deliver humanitarian aid to syria in cooperation with the un.
mr president, the 52 year old conflict that has cost the lives of more than 200 000 and caused the displacement of millions in colombia is about to be over. this is a major relief for all of us. national reconciliation has proved to be an extremely difficult task against the backdrop of so many atrocities, loss of life and injustice. it can be understood that for many of those who suffered, the terms of the agreement seem too generous for the farc fighters. now a negative referendum has reintroduced uncertainty. however, it is important to avoid any back-stepping from the historic agreement. the international community should decisively support both partners who have declared that they are prepared to stick to the terms of agreement and that a ceasefire would be extended over the end of october. the fact that almost two-thirds of voters abstained from the vote, and that the result was practically a draw belies claims that the vote was directed against national reconciliation. it was certainly not the case. the vote should be seen as a wake-up call, a crucial opportunity for colombian citizens to reengage in democratic debate and not leave the national future to be decided by politicians alone. now a new period of dialog must start. it has to include all the sectors of the colombian people. most importantly, the peace process should become irreversible.
mr president, reports on the use of chemical weapons are extremely disturbing. the use of such weapons must be investigated by the united nations and perpetrators must be brought to justice. the situation in darfur, in south kordofan and blue nile, is deplorable. the innocent killings must stop immediately. the un-african union mission must be given access to these areas and humanitarian aid made accessible in this humanitarian disaster. president al-bashir must be arrested, as foreseen by the international criminal court. those states that gladly greet al-bashir in their countries, despite the fact that he is wanted by the icc, must keep in mind that they bear part of the responsibility for the atrocities that are going on in sudan, by greeting al—bashir and not allowing for his arrest.
in writing. - i did. international financial reporting standards help stabilise markets, make them more transparent and strengthen supervision, and ensure investment protection and legal certainty.
in writing. - i did. the continuing killing of civilians and the bombing of hospitals in the syrian city of aleppo must stop immediately. it is extremely regrettable that russia is not willing to help with the ceasefire in aleppo, to deliver humanitarian aid to those in need and to allow civilians to leave safely. the eu foreign ministers are due to meet in october to come up with a plan to help bring peace and deliver humanitarian aid to syria in cooperation with the un.
in writing. - i did. eu action is needed to better protect consumer health and to improve the functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. scrutiny and monitoring on how efficiently member states incorporate union law to their legislation is a cornerstone of well-functioning eu and by that closing the gaps between member states in various aspects – economic, environmental, regional, and social and so on. i fully support the report, which points out that the eu is founded on the rule of law, and on the certainty and predictability of laws. the eu citizens must be the first to learn, in a clear, accessible, transparent and timely manner of whether and which national laws have been adopted through the transposition of eu laws, and of which national authorities are responsible for ensuring that they are correctly implemented. i welcome the efforts under the interinstitutional agreement regarding better law-making. structured cooperation, better coordination and streamlining are key elements in ensuring better compliance today and in the future. the report also proposes establishing a new working group on administrative law that would enable the ep have a closer and more timely insight in the proceedings and provide a better basis to assess the actual situation on complying with union law.
in writing. - i did. this is an annual report which provides information on the actual implementation and practical application of eu law. the report shows that the enforcement of eu law is still not sufficiently transparent and that efforts should be made to improve the situation.
in writing. - no, he didn't. the introduction of a step-by-step regulation of genetically modified products is neither effective nor appropriate.
in writing. - no, he didn't. the introduction of a step-by-step regulation of genetically modified products is neither effective nor appropriate.
in writing. - no, he didn't. the introduction of a step-by-step regulation of genetically modified products is neither effective nor appropriate.
in writing. - no, he didn't. the introduction of a step-by-step regulation of genetically modified products is neither effective nor appropriate.
in writing. - no, he didn't. the introduction of a step-by-step regulation of genetically modified products is neither effective nor appropriate.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like first to thank all the colleagues, and especially the shadow rapporteurs, who have worked on this file for the very constructive manner in which we have dealt with it. the customs union is not talked about enough but remains one of the successes of the european union. we should not take it for granted, and we should not think there is no room for improvement. an important piece of the customs union is, for instance, missing: we have the same rules but we handle matters in a completely different way when companies or individuals break these common rules. it might not have been such a big problem before, because some member states have big ports while some other countries have smaller trade flows and less resources to control. but the modernised customs code brought about a trade facilitation measure with the authorised economic operator status, which can be lost if a company commits a serious repeated infringement. a company might lose its status in country a, while still working in country b. this will create distortion of the market and unfair competition. in addition, in the digital age, we have to have the objective of creating new opportunities for small and medium—sized enterprises. my goal in this report was quite different from the approach taken by the commission as my focus was on improving compliance businesses with sometimes very complex rules, so that the system leads to fewer infringements and not more. sanctions are the last resort when there is a lack of compliance, but the starting point cannot be that all companies are intending to break the rules. we need to treat the companies as partners. circumstances matter and need to be acknowledged. so this has to be taken into account while determining the sanction. i am really against the strict liability regime that is in place in several countries; it simply deters compliance. a strict liability regime also means that no degree of guilt needs to be determined, which raises a serious question of whether it respects the presumption of innocence. there should be a mix of non-criminal and criminal sanctions when it comes to infringements of customs law and there should be a greater effort by the member states and the commission to improve compliance, improve businesses’ knowledge of customs legislation. last, but not least, it is very important to make sure that the system is fair and proportionate. it is not a fair system if you are a small company trading high—value goods and the sanctions kill your business because of your type of trade. sanctions need to be about the consequences of the infringement and not strictly about the value of the goods. i am very happy that parliament has decided to take this file seriously. it is a very different matter in the council, where they refuse convergence of a sanction system as a principle. therefore, i hope that the council will be a bit more constructive and will decide to work on this important pillar of the customs union, that is in compliance with european union law.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank all the colleagues who spoke on this matter. i agree with mr proust and mr schwab that we need a clear vision from the commission: a strategy that includes the single market, the customs union and trade policy. in a world where everything is moving to be digital, it is very important that we make the rules very simple. we should also make sure that the authorities act as partners to the micro-businesses and not as obstacles. on the inter-link between the administrative and criminal sanctions, the commission wants to have more clarity. however, i point out that in the commission’s proposal the member states could do whatever they wanted, so that was not clear either. in my report we do clarify that we need a harmonised approach towards the non-criminal sanctions, and we only leave room for the criminal sanctions if they need to be dissuasive. we certainly need to support the commission in the discussions with the council to ensure that the criminal sanctions are not used for anything else than serious infringements. regarding the ecr’s comments: they raised the issue that the bureaucracy is a problem. of course we agree, but don’t you think that having 28 sets of different rules is a bigger problem for the micro-businesses than to have one set of rules? we definitely want to diminish the bureaucracy here. finally, i really ask the council to do some work on this file, as we have addressed very many issues that were member states’ concerns in this report: for example, the strict liability issue. so the ball is in the council’s court.
mr president, i would like to thank you, commissioner cañete, for your balanced and critical approach to this topic. first of all, we need to face some basic facts. for example, just now, narges mohammadi, a family mother and leader of iran’s human rights centre, was sentenced additionally for sixteen years’ imprisonment for her human rights activities. iran continues to rank first in the world considering executions per capita. the iranian regime has been and continues to be one of the main sources of export of terrorism in the region and has contributed heavily in the emergence of daesh. these are some facts why the current eu approach can be seen as premature and unbalanced, where eu values and fundamental rights of iranians are sidelined. the main eu asset is our economic potential, which mullahs desperately need to keep riding on the tiger. but the only way to have a positive impact is firm conditionality between economic relations and credible progress in respect of basic human rights. this is a key moment – conditionality – which this report lacks, with all due respect to our colleague howitt for his serious work. iran continues to be one of the most brutal regimes in the world. and one fact: the current minister of justice has turned out to be responsible for the mass murders of 34 000 political prisoners in 1988. he claims he is proud of it. we cannot make deals with a person who has bloody hands. therefore i agree with colleague schaake that if the alde amendments will not be adopted tomorrow, then it will be very difficult to vote for this report.
mr president, the expansion of economic relations with iran cannot come at the cost of ignoring other things that are of core value to the european union. the improvement of the human rights situation is a must. iran must improve the state of women’s rights, freedom of expression and abolish the death penalty. iran has joined the un convention on the rights of the child, under which it has the obligation to stop the execution of juvenile offenders. so this is what it must do: stop executing children. iran also has to release all political prisoners and others that are unjustly detained. the harassment of journalists and the prosecution of iranian dual nationals has to stop. it is important to guarantee access to fair trial, access to a lawyer and that there will be an end to the systematic torture in prisons. the abolition of the death penalty is a key objective of eu human rights and foreign policy, and we cannot forget that in our relations with iran. iran has an important influence in the region, so it can – and should – play a stabilising role in the region. we call on iran to play a constructive role in solving the political crisis in syria and in iraq, and so on, and cooperate with the eu in countering terrorism and violent extremism in the region.
in writing. – having an adequate strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage is of key importance to europe’s energy security. some member states, such as lithuania, have rightfully invested in a new lng terminal, thereby decreasing their dependency on russian gas, whereas others are wasting money on foolishly increasing their dependency on such an unreliable source. russia has demonstrated on countless occasions that it is not a reliable partner to the eu and does not hesitate to wield energy as a political weapon. it would be extremely irresponsible to jeopardise our citizens’ wellbeing by subjecting their energy security to the whims of the kremlin. we must therefore strongly oppose the doubling of the north stream pipeline. the current pipeline is used in only half of its capacity; therefore, the only reason to double it is to divert all gas transit away from ukraine in order to further destabilise the country. furthermore, we currently lack sufficient interconnections for that gas to make its way back to our eastern member states; north stream 2 would therefore put them in a much more precarious position. some of those states are also landlocked, which further impedes their access to lng brought in by ships.
in writing. - i did. the purpose of the decision is to authorise denmark to receive and supply personal data for dna searches and comparisons in order to strengthen the crossborder fight against terrorism and crime.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to strengthen the cross-border fight against terrorism and crime.
in writing. - i remained neutral. i don't think the timing is right for this kind of a move.
in writing. - i did. the european structural and investment funds are designed to promote regional policy and member states have the possibility to apply, provided that they are also guaranteed national co-financing. the resolution allows the commission to adapt the criteria for the funding rules of the funds in order to make it easier for member states that have suffered more from the financial crisis to apply for grants.
in writing. - no, he didn't. cooperation in the sharing of railway statistics between the commission, eurostat and the european railway agency is important for the more efficient development of the railway network and for information on rail transport, disabled access and accidents in general to be shared and accessible between member states. the vote was set up as a non-supporting vote, which would have delayed its entry into force.
in writing. - i did. the amendment of the regulation puts inland waterway transport on an equal footing with the maritime, air and rail transport sectors, which provide the possibility to compile statistics on goods and passengers. the objective is to achieve greater transparency across the union through reliable statistical data.
in writing. - i did. the security measures of the institutions have been strengthened following the recent terrorist attacks, which requires amendments to the 2016 budget.
in writing. ‒ the religious dictatorship of iran has a long track record of deception, breaking its international commitments and trying to obtain weapons of mass destruction. therefore, any initiative to radically normalise relations with such a regime must be based on clear conditionality between developing economic relations on one hand and iran’s progress in the field of human rights on the other hand. this crucial nexus was absent from the report in question. it remained unbalanced, full of wishful thinking and overdue optimism. advancing first and foremost the economic interests will result in benefits for big eu companies and help iran’s regime to survive, but can do little if anything to guarantee civil rights and rule of law. it is ironic that the rapporteur has tried to associate sound criticism of the report with ‘lobbying interests’. the opposite could be more true. the impact of powerful lobbyists might have made the text so ambiguous and generous for clerical dictators that any serious demands for genuine change in their behaviour on human rights were watered down. therefore, after five amendments submitted by 76 members were narrowly defeated, i had no option but to remain in harmony with my better conscience and to vote against the report.
in writing. - no, he didn't. while the iran nuclear deal offers an opportunity to improve eu-iran relations and ensure greater stability throughout the region, improving relations is also conditional on improving the human rights situation in iran. this includes women's rights, freedom of expression and the abolition of the death penalty. the current report is weak on human rights and other important issues, and focuses too much on the promotion of economic relations rather than on the human rights situation.
in writing. - i did. transnational cooperation is needed to combat transnational organised crime and corruption. the report identifies a number of areas and makes recommendations to ensure eu-level cooperation in combating such criminal activity.
in writing. - i did. the report focuses on the human rights situation of those who are forced to leave their homes for various reasons and seek refuge elsewhere in the country. the european parliament and the council adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo (drc) on the basis of the report by the committee on development and cooperation (cd-rom). people in a more vulnerable situation, such as women, children and the disabled, need special attention. the solution to the global migration problem can only be found in a foreign policy of working for peace, and the eu has a major role to play in this. it is essential that un members, the eu and eu member states both honour their financial commitments in the field of humanitarian aid and that eu member states contribute 0.7% of their gnp to development aid.
in writing. - i did. respect for and protection of human rights are also fundamental and mandatory for businesses, both in europe and in third countries. i'm afraid that's not true. the report makes a number of recommendations to member states and the commission to improve the situation, including the adoption of legislation, the indication of the origin and method of manufacture of products, the introduction of minimum penalties, access to legal aid, etc.
in writing. - i did. it is important to accelerate the establishment of energy links between eu member states and to diversify the different sources of energy, which would help reduce dependence on suppliers outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the rapporteur's aim of identifying shortcomings in the application of the fisheries rules and making proposals to improve the harmonisation of controls in the common fisheries policy.
in writing. - i did. good connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure have a significant impact on the eu's economic growth, competitiveness, employment and territorial cohesion. the report takes account of the economic situation of the member states and the principles of sustainable development, and focuses on the less connected areas of central and eastern europe and on improving the situation, including road and rail transport, inland waterways, seaports and airports.
in writing. - i did. given the developments in societies in and around the eu, it is important to raise awareness of the common values on which the eu is founded. the report recommends the creation of a mechanism to help ensure that democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are respected in practice.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all who have taken part in this debate. it is a moment in the implementation of the multiannual financial framework (mff) that we cannot possibly miss in terms of introducing adjustments that would allow us in the next four years to respond to priorities. we all agree on those priorities. i heard in the debate those who say that our proposals go too far and i also heard in the debate those – and actually there were more voices in this category – who said that we are not going far enough. it is true that, when we look at the capacity to operate in a very tight budgetary environment in member states, we know the restrictions that unanimity places on us when we go forward for the revision. the notion that some may have that we are going too far is understandable, but let me just remind all of us that our budget is just one percent of gni and yet it has such a massively important purpose, especially in these very turbulent times. those who think that we are not going far enough have, of course, very legitimate reasons for saying that. it is true that we are still struggling to overcome the impact of a prolonged economic crisis, especially as it affects our youth. i just want to flag that, in addition to what we have in our proposal to address the most pressing needs of recovery and employment, we also have been able to provide three of the most affected countries – italy, greece and spain – with a boost coming out of the adjustment of eur 4.6 billion. i certainly hope that these countries will indeed direct as much as possible of this funding to tackle unemployment and all three also need to deal with the impact of migration. beyond the proposal there are some other elements that we should take into account. when we look into the viability of what we have put forward, actually we are convinced that it is possible to reach an agreement between the council, parliament and the commission on a way forward. it is not only possible but is of paramount necessity, so that we can continue to function in a way that delivers to people. i want to respond to two points that were made: one by mrs thomas on the importance of putting forward a more detailed proposal on how the new reserve could be created and what the implications may be. we agree with that and we have actually already offered during a presentation in a meeting of the general affairs council that we might elaborate a bit further on the link between the decommitments – how they may be made, how we guarantee that there would be no perverse incentive to have more decommitments – and, on the other hand, how high a limit would we set in order for the reserves to be used when it is indeed absolutely necessary? we will of course share this proposal with parliament as well. secondly, a number of points were made with regard to payments. i could not agree more that, while we have got on top of the issue of insufficient payment appropriations in the past and we have cleared the bills that were to be paid, we are now unfortunately facing this year – and we expect the same next year – insufficient payments coming our way. mr novakov also made that point. we can only work as hard as possible to accelerate implementation and call on all of us to push all the buttons there are for this to happen. we do have enough payment credits should we apply all the flexibility of the global margin for payments and should we reach an agreement on where the payment for the special instruments belongs – above the ceilings, as parliament and the commission have been arguing for, or under the ceilings? but this is work to be done in a pragmatic way to bring everybody together so we can have a review and revision that results in a more potent budget for the next four years in front of us.
rapporteur. – madam president, the 2017 budget as proposed by the co—rapporteurs is stronger, greener and more democratic. stronger because it includes several targeted top-ups: restore the efsi, related cuts, move forward horizon 2020, smes, erasmus, life+, the youth employment initiative and dci, and more to tackle the migration crisis. greener because it includes some targeted and specific increases for sustainable programmes such as life+. after the ratification of the paris agreement, the eu should go much beyond these increases, but it is a first step in the right direction and i thank everyone who was involved. it is more democratic because it includes a reserve in the budget of the commission in order to force the commission to come up with a stricter code of conduct. after both barrosogate and kroesgate, eu citizens cannot simply accept that ex-commissioners are not bound by strict rules and are not accountable anymore. colleague geier mentioned inter-rail and foresaw some other good uses for the money. i am obliged here to bring you the words of my honoured colleagues rebecca harms and michael cramer who think that mobility across borders is one of europe’s biggest tangible successes. we want to ensure that all european people can equally benefit from mobility across europe and explore europe first hand. to this end, we are asking the commission to issue a competition for free inter—rail vouchers that young people can apply for in european projects. basically, i agree with michael cramer that there are better ways than that of spending eur 1.5 billion, but for youngsters to see different european corners, to travel freely to meet each other, make love, not war, that is a good idea, i think. i will skip the parts of the european parliament’s own budget because it is a delicate matter covered by a gentlemen’s agreement which no one has ever seen and whose text no one has ever held in their hands – and i must say, barroso was a gentleman, please don’t interrupt me. the thing is, we have here a problem of calculation of the establishment plan which we agreed to reduce, and then we have the increase in political group staff which we do not count as staff, but to whom we apply the staff regulations. i must say that i was warned not to stick my nose too deeply into this issue if i want to have a political career, so let it be. let’s close my political career but i am against it. a few words about other sections. as you know, we tried to take a position, and we will vote on it, to restore the budget line on other sections. however, i witnessed very recently a presentation of the annual report by the court of auditors in brussels in the committee on budgetary control, and i was absolutely pleased to see all of the national members of the court of auditors sitting there in three rows, with their only duty being to applaud after mr lehne’s presentation. that is not a well spent working day even though it is a very festive one, and if i see them here tomorrow, i will make a proposal to cut their budget. thank you for giving me the floor and i will come back in the closing remarks.
blue-card question. – madam montel, you said the budget is full of paradoxes. can you explain me something? you made about 200 amendments to reduce the paradoxes, but as we in the budget committee voted for them, you left the committee. so you didn’t care – or do you?
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, allow me to make four points in closure from the side of the commission. first, what i heard is broadly support for the priorities of the budget and clarity that we do need to stick to priorities to use money where it would matter the most. i can pledge that this is exactly what we intend to do. secondly, a concern expressed – and actually it came with the very last speaker as well – that what we see in budget 2017 in terms of speed of implementation of the new programmes is not going to be a satisfactory outcome unless actions are taken early. i agree very much that prevention is better than cure – much better to act early. i would be happy to come and engage in a debate. i can tell you that in the commission we are spending quite a lot of time to see what more we can do to unleash the implementation of some programmes, working with member states. we are very keen to see that especially those programmes where there is direct likely impact on jobs and growth are given a strong focus. thirdly, we are very mindful of the necessity to demonstrate impact and results. there was a mention of 86% of people getting into and staying in jobs in slovakia. that is exactly what we concentrate on, and this is what the whole point of the budget focus on results is, and that is certainly having a transformative impact in the way we work. last but not least, we are very open to be critical of how we work, and this is why the focus on, for example, revision of the financial regulation, simplification, cutting red tape, making the budget more transparent – this is why we are so engaged with that. we are also constantly working on modernising the administration. for example, we carried out the synergies and efficiencies review that allowed us to identify over 600 posts in the commission that, with a better organisation of work, can be then dedicated to top priorities and still meet our goal of 5% staff reduction completed by 2017. of course – sorry, i’ve run over time. i will stop right here with the hope that we will be able to deliver budget 2017 as scheduled on 16 november or 17 november in the morning at the latest.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you, honourable members of the european parliament, for all the comments made. i will try to quickly take at least some of them. first of all, i will say a few words on the treatment of the mid—term review or revision of the multiannual financial framework in the context of the negotiations related to the annual budget procedure. first of all, i would like to stress that the multiannual financial framework on the one hand, and the annual budget procedure of the eu on the other hand, are governed by different treaty articles, establishing notably different decision-making processes. the council is fully aware that, pursuant to article 312 of the treaty, the consent of parliament is required before any modification of the mff regulation. concerning the review or revision of the mff, the council is diligently examining the various commission proposals, and as far as the annual budgetary procedure is concerned – this being the file i am tasked to conduct – the council is currently examining, besides the amendments of parliament to the position of the council, amending letter no 1 to the draft budget for 2017, adopted by the commission last week. the council will certainly have a position on all these various elements during the forthcoming conciliation procedure. the council is aware that parliament wishes to reach an agreement on the review or revision of the mff before concluding the negotiations on the draft budget for 2017, and the council is for keeping these two procedures separate. we should avoid any linkages that could render timely agreement of the draft budget for 2017 more difficult. the second point i would like to make is on the amending letter. this was only presented by the commission on monday 17 october. the council preparatory bodies are currently analysing the proposal in detail, but at the current stage there is no political agreement on it. the presidency will endeavour to get a position on this letter of amendment before the first conciliation meeting with parliament. having analysed the mood of member states on the letter of amendment, it is very likely that the council will strongly distinguish between its regular components on the one hand, which address, for instance, heading 2, and on the other hand, top-ups for 2017. these can be materialised only once we have a deal on the mff mid—term review or revision. the council is of the view that we cannot prejudge the outcome of the mff mid—term review or revision, and thus top—ups stemming from mff revision could be addressed through a draft amending budget once there is a legal basis for additional appropriations. by way of conclusion – i am running out of time – we have been listening carefully to the arguments raised during this debate, and i will inform my colleagues in the council accordingly. the debate has certainly helped clarify the european parliament’s position and the issues that are the most important to you. the council will do its utmost in order to engage in fruitful negotiations, allowing us to come to an agreement on the 2017 budget and all open budgetary questions within the deadlines foreseen by the treaty. finally, let me stress that for the council, the 2017 eu budget negotiations and the mid—term review or revision of the mff are two different exercises which should be dealt with separately. as far as the mid—term review or revision of the mff is concerned, the negotiations in the council are held by the general affairs council.
rapporteur. – mr president, thanks to everyone who has been participating in this debate which has perhaps been very critical and that is why i would like to conclude with two more optimistic remarks. first of all, i would like to congratulate the slovak presidency, which has taken a huge step towards understanding the complicated nexus between revision of the mff and the 2017 budget. a week ago we were not that far advanced; now we are. of course i agree that these are parallel processes but each railway has two parallel rails, otherwise the train cannot be driven on them. secondly, there is some good news i read in the politico newspaper, where they say the parliament budgetary authorities are doing the right thing: hitting former commissioners where it hurts, in the pocketbook. i am sorry, really, that it took so long and the involvement of bigwigs like barroso and others to take us that far because i have for more than two years now been dealing with mr kallas’s breaches – minor breaches – of the code of conduct: being a former commisioner, being a special advisor to commissioner dombrovskis and being the lobbyist of a software company – all simultaneously. of course, who would know better than he, because he was proud of presenting the transparent lobby register many years ago and, as an author, he obviously knows where the loopholes, the dark shades and all those areas are. that is why i am absolutely confident that putting this money to reserve encourages the commission, and vice-president georgieva is definitely made of different material from the above-mentioned. but you should look at it like the space programme. there are hundreds of useless satellites travelling around the earth, many of them not functioning, many of them not taking signals anymore. so let us bring them down. that is the aim of a budget.
in writing. the conclusion of a free trade agreement with canada is beneficial for both the eu and canada, as it opens up new opportunities and markets for businesses, removes most of the tax tariffs and gives eu businesses access to canadian public procurement. the agreement simplifies and makes customs procedures more transparent, which is of great benefit, especially for small businesses. the agreement also provides for guarantees for the protection of consumer rights, workers' rights, the environment and health, and for cooperation to promote these in third countries.
rapporteur. – mr president, i know fist fights are more emotional than the dull numbers of a budget, but indeed we need more of the latter than the former. and i know i’m at terrible risk of sounding like sir humphrey appleby from the ‘yes, minister’ series, but i have to make a technical amendment. the text originally read ‘including one permanent ad 12 post’. now we want to have ‘including one temporary ad 12 post’, for the director of the authority for european political parties and european political foundations. the estonian wisdom goes that nothing can be more permanent than a temporary position. i would also like to reach a compromise regarding changes to parliament’s establishment plan to enable members of this chamber to vote really separately on the proposed increases in posts for political groups. i therefore propose to vote on amendment 1556 in two parts, the first part to be the text as a whole without ‘plus 76 posts’ for political groups and the second part only the words ‘plus 76 posts’. i think if we can do that, mr. president, we will send a good message to european citizens. (laughter)
in writing. - i did. the general budget for the following year is worked out by the parliamentary committees. the resolution points out that the eu budget must be planned with the union's long-term priorities in mind and be prepared to finance unforeseen problems. the budget includes economic and social, security and citizenship sub-themes, pilot projects and preparatory actions, and also the budgets of the eu institutions separately.
in writing. - i did. since the establishment of the mff, europe has been hit by crises that have not been taken into account. in the current review, it is important to adapt the framework to enable the eu to deal with budgetary challenges and thus ensure a realistic and sustainable eu budget.
in writing. - i did. eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as submitted an application to assist 800 redundant workers in their successful return to the labour market. estonia applied for the egf for the first time. the fund shall finance services for those who have suffered redundancies. services include training, estonian language courses, work placements, debt counselling, study grants and transport and accommodation allowances.
in writing. - i did. the directive harmonises the laws of the member states in order to improve the functioning of the common market.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to find ways of dealing with emerging diseases and pathogens in the field of phytosanitary. the trade measures in this area will also be updated.
in writing. - i remained neutral. the european semester sets very general objectives which do not have a direct added value for the member states. the framework is also not subject to ex post evaluation, which undermines the european parliament's monitoring role, so that the six-monthly cycle does not provide sufficient precise guidance and specific actions and recommendations to member states are lacking.
in writing. - i did. trans fats are harmful to human health, but for various reasons they are widely used in the food industry and people are often unaware of their health effects. therefore, in order to reduce the use of trans fats in the food industry, it is necessary to approach the issue at eu level and to establish common rules restricting the use of trans fats.
madam president, iraqi traditional minorities have suffered most as a result of regional conflict and isis terrorism. the european parliament concluded in february that daesh is committing genocide against christians, yazidis and other religious minorities. i think this message should be now taken with utmost seriosity because historic, religious and ethnic minorities face a challenge there: to be or not to be. the european parliament has already supported the need to create safe havens for chaldeans, syriacs, assyrians and others in the nineveh plains, tal afar and sinjar areas. this could take the practical form of a special province of iraq, which would provide for all religious and ethnic groups used to settle the region’s safety and equal opportunities. what we need is determined support by the international community and i think the eu assistance should not be substantially increased but also be allowed to be channelled directly to local churches, peace-based relief organisations and security forces who live among the people in need, and know best their problems. if rules make obstacles for that, the rules must be changed. there should not be an excuse, because it is about our common faith and future. europe cannot continue to observe the destruction of the very roots of our civilisation, because this is about our common religious and cultural continuity.
madam president, freedom of the media and expression is a fundamental principle of the eu. still, i think the european union has been rather modest to mainstream this principle in relations with turkey, which is in 151st place out of 179 states regarding media freedom. out of all the candidate countries, turkey is the only one which has recently cut the wire on major social media channels, for example twitter. following the attempted coup d’état, turkey’s government is clamping down with new intensity on the still-existing free media, both offline and online. i call upon the turkish authorities to immediately stop the arbitrary detention and harassment of journalists and media workers. the names of 130 journalists arrested has been mentioned, and i agree with my colleague, rebecca harms, that this is not about statistics. behind every name is a personal tragedy, family, freedom of expression. clearly this all has nothing to do with the fight against terrorism. i equally call on the eu to take a strong stand on this issue, because defending freedom of expression for the turkish people means solidarity in practice. to allow different opinions to be freely published would only reinforce turkish society, and i think it should be regarded as a criterion as to whether the turkish government will stay on the right path to join the european community of values.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the european security situation has grown increasingly fragile. the global security environment has deteriorated considerably, bringing about different threats. this brings us to an era where more and more states see nuclear weapons as an active deterrent, and we are faced with a situation where, instead of reducing the number of nuclear weapons in the world, we see their re-emergence. in addition to states actively developing their nuclear weapons, for example north korea and others like russia, boasting around making statements on the importance of nuclear deterrence, bringing iskander short-range missiles to kaliningrad and conducting exercises and overflights flights involving nuclear-capable systems, there is also a threat of terrorism. the fear that terrorists will get a hold on either a nuclear weapon or materials is real, and all countries must be vigilant to make sure that this will not happen. in order to decrease the possibility of a huge nuclear disaster in this world of serious contradictions, we have to reduce the number of nuclear weapons, with the aim of eliminating them altogether. this cannot be done by any nuclear state alone but needs to be a concerted effort. we must come to an understanding that, in order to reduce the amount of nuclear weapons, all nuclear states must do that. there are different possibilities for achieving a world free of nuclear weapons. the ratification and implementation of the international legal instruments regarding nuclear security must be broadened. the ctbt treaty should be ratified by states that have not yet done so. the non-proliferation treaty needs to be further strengthened. to effectively counter nuclear terrorism we need international cooperation, including the sharing of information between states. also, it is important for the nuclear states to have a dialogue and decide on a legally-binding instrument to prohibit nuclear weapons.
in writing. - i did. each institution shall be responsible for the proper implementation of its budget. parliament has a supervisory role in this process. it is regrettable that the institutions in question do not submit their annual activity reports to the european parliament and that the budgets of the agencies have not yet been divided. the 2014 budget of the general council and the council should be rejected as it still contains a significant number of unresolved issues.
in writing. - i did. the 2014 budget of eniac has been implemented and can be considered approved.
in writing. - i did. the budget for artemis for the year 2014 has been implemented and can be considered as approved.
in writing. - i did. the budget for iter and the development of fusion energy for 2014 has been implemented and can be considered approved.
in writing. - i did. the liberation of mosul and other areas held by isis from isis is important. at the same time, the iraqi authorities must take measures to protect civilians during attacks and comply with international humanitarian and human rights law. we must ensure that ethnic minorities are not persecuted, that we have adequate humanitarian aid, that we have the ability to clean up the land of ieds, etc.
in writing. - i did. a free and diverse press, the presumption of innocence and the independence of the judiciary are integral parts of any democratic society. the turkish government must not use the failed military coup as a justification for suppressing the legitimate and peaceful opposition and preventing the peaceful exercise of freedom of expression by disproportionate and unlawful measures by journalists and the media. the unlawfully detained journalists and media workers must be released.
in writing. - i did. the reduction and elimination of nuclear weapons should be a common goal of all states, which can only be achieved if all nuclear-weapon states agree to it and all of them act together to achieve it. unilaterally, such a thing is not possible. in the meantime, however, it is important to reduce global tensions in the interests of a peaceful resolution of various conflicts, and all nuclear states must ensure that nuclear weapons and materials do not fall into the hands of terrorists.
in writing. - i did. volunteering helps to strengthen civic engagement and personal development, and the resolution therefore calls for more trans-european opportunities and a framework to support volunteering activities.
in writing. - i did. investing in young people, involving them in decision-making processes and having a sound youth policy is essential to ensure their future. the report assesses the period that has elapsed and identifies a number of areas where progress is needed. the problems are in finding common solutions, for example, for early school leaving and also for integrating refugees into the education system. the adoption of a number of financial instruments has also been delayed.
in writing. - the private one. the report aims to look at what causes rural unemployment and rural depopulation and whether there is any way to change this process under the cap. i remained neutral, since the report did not, however, provide solutions that would help with these problems.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i hope to be briefer than five minutes. commissioner, there is actually no need to amend what was said by those colleagues who spoke earlier. they have provided all the scientific evidence and facts, and if it were for this parliament to decide, even though we are not very large in numbers tonight, we are representing a much bigger group of meps. so, if it were for parliament to take a decision, you would come back in the spring without switching your clock. that is what i say. the problem is that the commission and the council seem to live on a different continent, not on the continent which has given mankind great minds like galileo or copernicus, even though – ironically – we have european programmes and budget lines which are named after those guys. but we in the commission and in the council seem not to have understood their teaching, which is basically that the earth goes around the sun, not vice versa, and man is not god who can create more light, by just tickling their watches. it is impossible to create more light. commissioner, you said that the eu introduced this measure as a response to the 1970s energy crisis. yes, indeed, you are right. but actually, the measure was introduced as a part of wartime economics, as was pointed out by the previous speaker – by the german empire, the austro-hungarian empire, the russian tsarist empire and the ottoman empire. where are these empires today? they are not to be found, because they were wrong. who introduced it again? ah, two fellows, also famous in european history, mr hitler and mr stalin, because they also dreamed about how to have war on the continent. the first thing hitler did in belgium in 1940 was to tear down the tricolore, put up the red banner – and switch the clock. the same happened months later in estonia, but that was done by stalin. so in my opinion, the european union is not at war. yes, indeed we have tremendously important crises which we have to deal with, but internally we are not at war. so it is at last time to stop the wartime economic measure. and you were right, pointing out that harmonised and coordinated management of time zones is very relevant from the internal market point of view and from many other aspects – transport, etc. but this is what we are telling you. we are not against coordination and harmonisation. we are just asking you to stop this toying with the clocks because, as was said by ms ayala sender, it is harmful for children, it is harmful for the elderly, it causes traffic accidents, it is harmful for animals, be they pets or be they farm animals, because then again these guys who want to change the time twice a year destroy the quality of animal life. and as you know, commissioner, we have many people within this parliament who are fighting for animal rights. so finally, i think there will always be people who deny the laws of nature, and they believe that if we turn the clock, we get more light, particularly in the evenings. but you know, galileo was also sentenced to death because he had discovered how the laws of nature work, and i hope – and i wish you good luck, commissioner – that you will go back to your colleagues, to the responsible commissioner, and ask them, by spring (because it is six months away), to come up with a meaningful proposal to stop this stupidity. it is that easy. and if you come back with that, we will welcome you. if you do not make a proposal, you had better tell them not to come. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr tarabella, you are normally, as always, right: the ice and snow have an impact on traffic accidents and that is why normally in france and belgium, when the winter comes, your drivers will be advised not to follow estonian and finnish drivers because they are used to ice, but you are not. the light is a limited amount. i mean, the more north you go there is a polar day and polar night and we cannot change it by switching clocks.
rapporteur. – madam president, the state of european security has grown increasingly fragile. the surge of instability and unpredictability around the union borders is a reality and a cause of concern to all european citizens. in order to defend itself and increase its security, the european union must do more and must be consistent. our union is not equipped to face overwhelming defence challenges. for almost 30 years, the majority of the member states applied cuts in their defence budgets, leading to smaller armed forces. cooperation among member states is occasional, and europe continues to rely heavily on nato capabilities and on us solidarity. many member states have called, over the past year, for effective and increased cooperation on defence. let us be clear: the momentum to move towards a working european defence policy is here. tomorrow, parliament is voting on the european defence union report. as rapporteur, my main recommendations included the goal for eu countries to spend 2% of their gdp on defence, helping to finance infrastructure in member states at the union’s eastern border, and establishing a military schengen area. the role of nato has been, is and will continue to be paramount. there is also no reason to say that eu defence cooperation is weakening nato. this is simply not true. on the contrary, for years nato has wished to see the eu as a partner complementing it. there are several issues on which the eu could improve its security cooperation internally as well as with nato. at the moment, movement of the allies’ defence forces personnel is troublesome, bureaucratic and time consuming. the eu must create a system to change this reality: in other words, the so-called military schengen should be established. we can talk endlessly about increasing the efficiency of defence costs – and that is necessary – but in order to reach a certain level of quality we need also quantity. the eu member states must set themselves the goal of spending 2% of their gdp on defence, as the nato countries have done. this would give a clear signal of the joint positions of the eu and nato. in order to carry out the eu defence policy we must contribute additionally from our common eu budget. the right way to do this will be through the eu’s multiannual financial framework. the eu can financially support, for example, the placement of international nato battalions in the eu member states by backing the building of necessary infrastructure such as roads, barracks and other facilities. at the moment, most of this burden falls on a few specific member states who, due to their geopolitical location, need an increased nato presence. at the same time, the increased presence serves as a protection for all the eu and nato countries. the eu must also gear up the defence research programme and start developing a common european policy on capabilities and armament. we need to strengthen the industrial and technological base of our defence sector in order to decrease dependency on third parties. the practical steps also require a political framework in order to ensure sufficient political attention. therefore, it would be reasonable to create the position of european commissioner for defence and to set up regular meetings of the eu defence ministers. furthermore, it is necessary to establish the headquarters for the eu military operations. the member states that are ready to undertake more binding commitments could set up permanent structured cooperation arrangements so that it would be possible to establish multinational forces. an option would be to further develop the eu battle group system. and, lastly, europe can and must enable a real defence dimension without further delay. the union must become proactive, especially in the security field.
rapporteur. – i have one oral amendment for paragraph 6, and this oral amendment is to delete from paragraph 6 the words ‘with the assistance of a deputy hr’.
in writing. - i did. ukraine is an important partner of the eu and cooperation with ukraine is essential in the fight against drugs, human trafficking and organised crime. the agreement will provide an opportunity for better information exchange and crime prevention and a broader framework for combating transnational crime.
in writing. - i did. the updated law regulates the requirements for the capture and cultivation of cod stocks.
in writing. - i did. the directive lays down rules to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax policies. the aim is to prevent offshore centres from being established.
in writing. - i did. the report notes that, as a result of the economic downturn, unemployment remains high in the eu, inflation remains low and public debt remains high. the report draws attention to the need to gradually complete the banking union and points out that the recovery from the economic crisis is geographically uneven between member states, which hinders faster economic growth.
in writing. - i did. in the market for core financial services, member states are not very competitive with each other due to cross-border barriers. the green paper provides for the opening up of markets and the better provision of services.
in writing. - i did. with the deterioration of the security situation in europe, it is high time to build a well-functioning european defence cooperation, as europe's neighbourhood has become more volatile and unpredictable over the last few years. the report aims to spend 2% of the member states' gdp on defence, nato infrastructure such as barracks, roads, etc., eu support and the creation of a defence force-schengen. the time is right to build a well-functioning european defence cooperation.
in writing. - i did. the development of transport policy is essential for more sustainable passenger transport and better waterway connections. the report calls for improving competitiveness through better infrastructure, environmental sustainability and quality and accessibility of service.
in writing. - i did. the eu is the world's largest donor of aid, so it is important that its aid is effective, targeted and transparent. cooperation at all possible levels is needed and human rights, the rule of law and anti-corruption measures are an important element in the effective allocation of development cooperation funds. member states should aim for 0.7% of gdp and contribute more to the eu budget and the european development fund.
madam president, i would like to thank ms mogherini for updating us and for her efforts to achieve something which seems to be impossible. but we need to continue our efforts, because the situation is deteriorating and peace negotiations are still at an impasse. we know that one million people are under siege, 200 000 are detained by the assad regime under inhuman conditions. so i think our goal has still to be to achieve a ceasefire and to stop this massive violence against the civilian population for which both the assad regime, backed by russia and iran, and islamist extremists are responsible. and i support our colleague schaake’s conclusion that mr putin has taken maximum advantage from the weakness and inactivity of the eu. i think what is most important is to end this climate of impunity for people who are daily committing war crimes. and the second problem is that the eu should finally have a common eu/syria strategy to facilitate political achievement. but i very much support your approach that we must be prepared for post-conflict reconciliation and reconstruction. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think we should appreciate actors by their deeds. while the united states and others are trying to avoid loss of civilian life, russia, together with the assad regime, is indiscriminately bombing the civilian population. this has been proved, and our first attention should go to those who are committing violence and war crimes against the civilian population, whoever they are.
madam president, we have to take very seriously the grim news which comes every day from turkey about one more merciless violation of human rights, in prisons or elsewhere. and the latest messages coming from social media are an even stronger warning because there are signals on social media about a planned massacre in the prisons in turkey under the pretext of planned unrest. this could seem like fantasy, but for us – people who know well the history of stalinism – it is a familiar pattern. provocations of this kind and fake trials are part of a well-known pattern. it is important that the eu and you personally, ms mogherini, should do everything possible to ensure that we have an objective international team to investigate the situation of prisoners in turkish jails, the situation with regard to torture, and the 21 suicides, or alleged suicides, and so on. in this situation we really have no other option: if we want to be taken seriously as a guardian of human rights all over the world, then we have to react and we have to give erdogan the clear message that he has stepped across all the red lines. there is a way back – and that is why we want to freeze the talks, not to finish them. there could be a way back for the turkish people, the turkish nation, and we must do all we can so that the turkish nation will have this way back.
good people. i was born and educated in the soviet union and when i read this resolution and heard some of the speeches i was struck by the thought of being familiar with it. have we really played ourselves into the corner where we're adopting the rhetoric of a totalitarian regime? are we really standing up for censorship? do we contribute to the anonymous author's production, which is journalistically the same propaganda as the one he fights? and are we really, in our right mind, equating the kremlin with isis? in my home country of estonia, the last two russian-language newspapers were closed down by the big publisher a month ago, which means that their readership is moving smoothly into the russian media orbit and the vote today or tomorrow will not change that. in the culture committee, we took a constructive approach, talking about solving the problems of journalists, but the document on the table today is more about focusing on propaganda or counter-propaganda. it's a dead end. in a democratic world, politicians don't run the media, even for a holy cause, let's think about that.
madam president, i am happy that madam mogherini started her speech with an idea from my draft, namely the ‘post-truth era’, where the line between what is false and what is true is being deliberately blurred. this report brings home the alarming fact that, parallel to daesh, the russian leadership is engaged in a full-scale disinformation and propaganda war to undermine the eu democratic narrative and to separate europe from its main democratic ally. and may i say that the irritation shown in this hemicycle by the far left and far right is proving that madam mogherini’s message has reached its targets. it is working. the eu, its institutions and member states now need to recognise that information warfare is in full swing and requires immediate widespread and comprehensive reforms, and i would like also to support the idea that east stratcom needs a serious boost in its financing and role.
in writing. - no, he didn't. the commission has consulted the eu legislation and the treaties in the negotiations on the agreement and the agreement has been assessed favourably by the legal service of the european parliament, so i do not think it is necessary to seek a separate opinion from the court of justice. rather, it is another attempt to delay or prevent the conclusion of a trade agreement, and its actions are particularly damaging to the economic policy of the eu as a whole.
in writing. - i did. given the extreme impact of air pollution on human health, action is needed to reduce air pollution. the eu is still far from the targets it has set so far, and therefore further action is needed to reach them.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to ensure that european financial services firms should not be subject to significantly increased capital requirements. this is necessary to enable banks to compete with other banks elsewhere in the world.
in writing. - i did. cooperation between states, increased defence cooperation at eu level and closer cooperation with nato are essential to improve the security situation in europe.
in writing. - i did. the spread of misinformation needs to be addressed. european society must realise that there is a tremendous amount of misinformation on the road and that action must be taken.
in writing. ‒ the approach to this problem comes from a wrong angle. while we should have been focusing on the professionalism and ethical behaviour of journalists, the approach seems to be to fight propaganda with counter-propaganda. counter-propaganda which is written by anonymous sources, as in the case of eaststratcom. in addition, we are taking a dangerous step in the wrong direction when we condemn the behaviour of a government of a state and a terrorist organisation in the same document. this sends a signal that either the russian government is regarded as a terrorist organisation or isis is a sovereign state. either way, this is unacceptable.
in writing. - i did. there is a significant proportion of people in the eu who use sign languages and for whom access to not only the physical environment but also to information and communication is an important condition for independent living and participation in society. it is therefore important that member states and the eu institutions do their utmost to ensure that they have access to the same information and communication as other citizens, whether through sign language or other forms of communication.
in writing. - i did. the safety of benthazone in humans has not been established and therefore its marketing authorisation should not be renewed until this has been established.
in writing. violence against women is a widespread violation of human rights that the european union cannot ignore. all eu member states have more or less legislated to combat violence against women, but in several of them more can be done to protect women and bring perpetrators to justice. i therefore welcome the eu's accession to the istanbul convention, which will allow for the harmonisation of relevant legislation at eu level and better collection of statistics. it is extremely regrettable that only 14 eu member states have ratified the istanbul convention so far. i also call on estonia to move forward as quickly as possible with the ratification process of the istanbul convention.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, two years ago president juncker launched his energy union as one of his priorities, but since then, despite the energy security package, we have seen many actions that are at odds with this priority. it is difficult to understand how nord stream 2 and the opal pipeline, which provide gazprom with increased access to europe, will achieve our goals of energy security. it seems that, despite common goals to build an energy union, some member states would still rather focus on their own energy security and their own national production. one good example is in central europe, where poland and the czech republic had to put in place barriers against inflows from the german grid. is this uncoordinated approach really acceptable if we have a single market? when i was asked to comment on the gazprom antitrust case, i stressed the need for much better interconnection between competition policy, single market legislation and energy policy, as the overall approach lacks coherence. this lack of coherence is to the benefit of market players and others who favour divide-and-rule policies. for every piece of bad news, there is good news, and i am happy that the baltic connector gas pipeline project is moving forward, but there are still many concerns. one of the concerns in our part of europe is definitely the fact that the baltic countries are still synchronised with the russian and belarus systems. i would very much like to see the commission addressing this, too, in order to improve energy security.
the european union's external relations must be clearly based on respect for human rights and international law, including, of course, in its relations with china. the disappearance of gui minhai, a swedish citizen, is yet another example of how the use of free speech leads to repression in this country. the european union has a duty to address human rights issues consistently in its relations with china, both at the eu level and in bilateral relations between countries. china should ratify the international covenant on civil and political rights and sign and ratify the international convention for the suppression of the enforced disappearance of all persons. china aspires to be one of the most powerful countries in the world. yes, he has the potential, but with political and economic influence comes responsibility. responsibility to ensure respect for human life and human freedoms and human rights. for china to truly realise its potential in the world, it is essential that human rights in china also reach an adequate level.
in writing. - i did. jordan is facing an extremely large number of refugees. the difficult situation has led to a decline in foreign direct investment and tourism, the closure of some freight routes and repeated disruptions to natural gas supplies from egypt. the refugee crisis has also slowed jordan's economic growth, so eu support is needed.
in writing. - i did. the aim of the directive is to improve the cross-border pension system so that citizens can move between member states in such a way as to ensure that they receive an equal pension.
in writing. - i did. the humanitarian situation in syria is of the utmost urgency. the eu is committed to the implementation of the peace process and to the implementation of the un charter. the eu must agree on a strategy for syria, which would include concrete measures to end the bombing and help the syrian people. the prerequisite for any viable solution to end the war in syria is cooperation, not satisfying russia's ambitions for a global confrontation at the expense of the syrian people. in fact, the goal of russia, the eu and the western world in syria must be shared to end the war, remove isil and allow people to return to their homes.
in writing. ‒ the resolution includes numerous correct statements and criticism concerning the situation in syria in general and the humanitarian crisis in aleppo and other places. nevertheless, i cannot agree with the statement that the most serious violations of international human rights and humanitarian law were committed by the assad regime. we all are aware of the atrocities of isis and other terrorist groups operating in syria. the resolution is hardly a constructive message to all parties involved that could motivate them to reach a peace agreement. therefore, i decided to abstain.
in writing. - i did. turkey is an important partner for the eu, but in the current situation, with the repressive measures against the media, journalists and parliamentarians that have followed the coup in turkey, accession talks with turkey must be suspended. the eu-turkey financial assistance and visa-free policy can only be developed if turkey is prepared to respect the principles of democracy and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - i did. violence against women is a problem that affects us all, given that one in four women in the eu suffers from violence against women. violence against women is a widespread violation of human rights that the european union cannot ignore. all eu member states have more or less legislated to combat violence against women, but in several of them more can be done to protect women and bring perpetrators to justice. i therefore welcome the eu's accession to the istanbul convention, which will allow for the harmonisation of relevant legislation at eu level and better collection of statistics. it is extremely regrettable that only 14 eu member states have ratified the istanbul convention so far. i also call on estonia to move forward as quickly as possible with the ratification process of the istanbul convention.
in writing. ‒ the istanbul convention obliges states to act against gender-based violence against women: to prevent it, to protect the victims and take measures against the perpetrators. as long as these necessary steps are taken, gender equality is not possible. all eu member states have signed the istanbul convention, but only 18 have actually ratified it. this is a complete shame. the european union should set an example by ensuring that all member states stand against gender-based violence.
in writing. - i did. the ombudsman, emily o'reilly, has been active in promoting greater transparency in the work of the institutions.
in writing. - i did. the resolution deals with the establishment of a fair, fraud-proof and efficient vat system. the main change is that vat is paid in the country of final destination of the product or service.
in writing. - i did. the survival of plant and animal species is essential to the survival of the world's ecosystems. coordinated national action is needed to combat international organised crime against wildlife.
in writing. - i did. the demand for transport is growing and small businesses play an important role in meeting the transport needs of suburban areas and during times of low traffic, so it is important to ensure fair standards for them to remain competitive. therefore, support measures are needed to help businesses to integrate digital services, to meet the sustainable development goals and to implement the necessary security requirements.
in writing. - i did. the previous presidential and parliamentary elections in belarus have raised concerns about the opposition's disregard for the rule of law and the continuing high level of human rights violations in the country. continue reform of the government, ensure respect for democratic principles, respect for fundamental freedoms and ban the death penalty.
mr president, thank you for calling my modest personality important. if you allow me to speak in estonian it will be even more important. suurem osa tänapäeva tarbimisest on seotud elektrienergiaga ning kui me soovime arengumaadele head, siis me teeme kõik selleks, et aidata neil toota taastuvenergiat, peamiselt muidugi päikesest, aga kliimamuutust arvesse võttes üha rohkem ka tuulest. kõik see kokkuvõttes võib abiks olla ka meile endale, nn rikkas maailmas, aidates käivitada meie liiga aeglaselt arenevat majandust, luues töökohti ning vähendades kasvuhoonegaaside emissioone. nagu mainis härra schaffhauser, saame nii vallandada aafrika potentsiaali, kaasates saudi-araabiat, hiinat ja venemaad. absoluutselt, selles ongi pariisi kliimalepingu mõte, rahvusvaheline koostöö on selle mõte, ja ma usun, et lihtsalt kogemata härra schaffhauser ei nimetanud usad ja tema vastvalitud president donald trumpi, kes on ka selles koostöös väga olulised. aitäh.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all i would like to inform the plenary that before the vote tomorrow i have to make a technical adjustment. i am sorry about this but it is my duty. i would now like to congratulate and offer my gratitude to everyone who helped me to finish this adventurous and creepy road of budgetary process. we achieved as much as we could, and the only complaint from my side would be that we did not meet the 20% of climate—related budgeting, which only recently came out from the court of auditors document. but let us try to do better next year. the conciliation meeting ended in a friendly atmosphere but in a bit of a rush. that is why, on the initiative of the chair of the committee on budgets, mr arthuis, we had to make some technical clarifications. i must say that almost two thirds of them were very successful. unfortunately, the commission failed to put in the necessary point about the reserves, which parliament adopted with a large majority. the reserves were meant to improve the code of conduct for commissioners, particularly for a cooling-down period for former commissioners. i promise to this plenary, to the commission and to everybody else that we will come back to this issue, because it seems that president juncker has sent mr schulz a proposal about how to improve the code of conduct, although for me for the time being it does not look like a step in the right direction, but rather the opposite. it proposes a cooling—down period for former commissioners and to allow them to be lobbyists at the same time and employed as advisers to commissioners. it is too long a period. we can cool nuclear reactors much more quickly than former commissioners, and sometimes these former commissioners have not given as much energy as a nuclear power plant. so we will come back to this issue. secondly, the external action services need to pay more attention to their strategic communication activities. we agreed on that and i am very grateful to the council and the commission for adopting it. the most important thing is, of course, our own business. political groups asked for 76 additional posts, and i, as a negotiator, made the utmost effort to get something. finally we compromised in a budgetary-neutral way, and now the problem is with this house. i understand that the secretary-general has been flexible enough to resolve it. i apologise to all the parliament officials who feel that their share was reduced in order to increase the share of political workers, but that is the political decision. i would like to thank commissioner georgieva, who was very helpful in these efforts to achieve the agreement, and also the shadows and everybody from parliament’s delegation, as well as minister lesay from the slovak presidency. i heard on the bulgarian news that the bulgarian government is intending to appoint a replacement, mr ivailo kalfin, who has a lot of experience in parliament. his appointment as a commissioner would relieve us from sophisticated debates over hearings, semi—hearings and mini hearings and allow mr oettinger to continue, under the experienced and firm supervision of vice—president ansip, on the digital area and perhaps also take some commercial flights. to sum up, i am extremely grateful and indebted to the secretariat of the committee on budgets and many other people in different institutions who literally saved my skin on numerous occasions when i was lost in this budgetary jungle. the only thing i can promise next year, under the estonian presidency, is that we can try to do better.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i also want to stress what was said by commissioner jourová that this is really the first international agreement between the eu and a third country – especially now the usa – which is implementing principles enshrined by us in our ‘police’ directive on data protection. that is a major step forward. the umbrella agreement improves the current regime of data protection in the existing bilateral agreements between the usa and eu member states. we must know that the existing bilateral agreements are really weak and they do not provide our citizens with data protection safeguards. for example the treaties on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the usa and germany, the usa and spain, the usa and finland, the usa and my own country estonia, and many other countries, do not comprise important rights of the data subject such as the right to access, the right to rectification, the right to be informed about the process, onward transfer restrictions, enhanced protection of sensitive data, rectification in case of data breaches, the fight for judicial redress, and so on. all of these rights will be provided to our citizens by the umbrella agreement. this means that delaying adoption of the umbrella agreement will, first of all, be at the expense of our citizens, and we have to understand that we have a very big political responsibility in this situation. i feel that we could have something ideal in an ideal world, but in the real world, with the incoming trump administration, i think that delaying this decision means that we will be really naive to hope that we will have a better solution under this new administration compared to what we have. at the same time, the umbrella agreement also foresees law enforcement cooperation. in situations of terrorism and all kinds of other international crimes, specifically cyber-crime for example, we need cooperation with america, even under the trump administration. but in this situation we also need better and concrete safeguards, so i think that in order to have better safeguards for our citizens and better police cooperation we have to support this agreement and to try to implement it as fast as possible. time really matters.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the recent internet governance transition to the global internet community is a symbolic step, but symbolic steps are quite necessary in these turbulent times, especially after the recent elections in the usa. most people involved in the work of icann will say that it will not change much, as the us commerce department was only validating that decisions follow protocols, but this is how it was, and with new leadership things can change. so for non-americans there is definitely a sense of relief that the transition has been done, not only because of the us political landscape, but because internet governance just cannot be under oversight of one specific country. trust and openness are at the heart of the internet, so people expect the internet to function and to be able to trust it; but maintaining that trust does involve a lot of technical work behind the scenes that most of us do not really see. the work of icann on domain names is a good example. domain names are like phone numbers: if some of us have the same number, then it’s a problem. so people need to trust that there is an inclusive and transparent process in place on how domain names are distributed and how name collisions are dealt with. the internet was created with the dream of free flow of information, but since then interests around controlling the internet from both the private sector as well as the public sector have been growing. therefore this is an important time for multi-stakeholder internet governance to be successful. it is crucial to show even in a rather technical area that the process is independent and transparent.
in writing. – increasing the level of scrutiny regarding the commissioner-candidates’ declarations of financial interests is absolutely necessary and does not come a moment too soon. we should do our utmost to verify the truthfulness of the declarations by actually investigating, instead of accepting them prima facie. we really do not need more scandals like those that arose out of cañete and kroes’ omissions. this report rightfully calls for a revision of the commissioners’ code of conduct; however, i am disappointed by the fact that the proposal to put some of the commission’s budgetary resources in reserve, until this revision actually happens, was not adopted. this would have motivated the commission to implement substantial, not merely cosmetical, changes. right now, they seem to be so out of touch with reality that they didn’t even blink an eye when oettinger made controversial remarks and accepted a flight on a lobbyist’s private jet. instead of appropriate repercussions, oettinger received a promotion to the post of vice-president. even his hearing in the parliament was replaced with a simple exchange of views. these sorts of practices play right into the hands of pro-kremlin eurosceptics.
in writing. the situation in the drc is becoming increasingly tense due to the reluctance of president kabila to leave in accordance with the established procedure. the unrest of recent weeks has resulted in human casualties, media outlets have been shut down, people are being illegally detained and the number of people living in poverty and in need of food aid is growing. the african union and the eu must ensure, through the means at their disposal, that the elections are nevertheless held in a timely manner in accordance with the congolese constitution and the african charter on democracy, elections and governance. it is important that all political actors engage in a peaceful and constructive dialogue as soon as possible. the eu can and should adopt sanctions against senior officials responsible for the violent repression of the protests and the political impasse. the european development fund funding in the congo should also be closely monitored and action taken if necessary.
mr president, i cordially call on everyone here to support one final technical amendment which improves our parliament’s organigramme without actually changing it, yet enables us to enforce the decision taken by the bureau only last week and which, in our world of rigidity, allow some small flexibility for the administration to pay attention and award promotions to those few in number who have provided excellent and diligent services to parliament’s everyday operations and hence guaranteed the free and unlimited political decision—making for all members of this chamber. the amendment reads as follows: ‘of which three ad personam promotions granted in exceptional cases to deserving officials’.
in writing. - i did. the regulation contains legal loopholes that need to be filled in order for the customs authorities to fulfil their customs supervision obligations.
in writing. - i did. the postponement of the application of the regulation gives the parties concerned additional time to comply with the new requirements.
in writing. - i did. the agreement is a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and for intensifying political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - i did. the agreement is a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and for intensifying political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - i did. the agreement is a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and for intensifying political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - i did. the agreement is a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and for intensifying political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - i did. the agreement is a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and for intensifying political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - i did. the eusf is one of europe's best instruments of solidarity, providing relief to regions affected by natural disasters and helping them to recover from the crisis.
in writing. - i did. legal certainty is needed as to whether the agreement is compatible with the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union as regards the right of individuals to the protection of personal data, the principle of non-discrimination and the right to an effective remedy and to a fair trial.
in writing. - i did. the agreement aims to ensure a high level of protection of fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, in particular with regard to the protection of privacy in the processing of personal data when personal data are transferred to the competent authorities of the european union and its member states and the united states for that purpose. given the current state of the fight against terrorism, such an agreement is necessary.
in writing. - i did. the interim economic partnership agreement allows ghana to maintain duty-free access to the european market in a context where ghana is developing and consolidating its position as a middle-income country. moreover, if the regional economic partnership agreement is implemented without further delay, it would be possible to resolve any discrepancies in tariff liberalisation schedules and tariffs without the need for further adjustment by regional processes.
in writing. - i did. the resolution agrees to approve an increase in the budget for eu security and citizenship-related issues. it also covers the financing of the refugee crisis.
in writing. - i did. recent developments in external issues, including migration and security, the extension of the mandate of frontex, and internal issues, such as cohesion policy and delays in its implementation, require budgetary readjustments.
in writing. - i did. the eu's own resources come mainly from taxes levied by the member states and need to be applied in line with the union's economic development.
in writing. - i did. the lower bavarian region in germany has been hit by very severe flooding, and money from the solidarity fund is helping the region to cope with the consequences.
in writing. - i did. the lower bavarian region in germany has been hit by very severe flooding, and money from the solidarity fund is helping the region to cope with the consequences.
in writing. - i did. the resolution agrees to approve the increase in budgetary appropriations related to eu security and citizenship and to issues under the global europe.
in writing. - i did. in order to better cope with the refugee crisis, it is important to ensure that financial measures are in place to alleviate the financial burden on member states to cope with an emergency. the previously established financial ceiling has been reached and additional funding needs to be mobilised.
in writing. - i did. the solidarity fund is designed to cope with natural disasters and its more effective implementation requires a faster system of advance payments.
in writing. - i did. the negotiations resulted in an agreed common eu budget, including funding for the refugee crisis and peace processes in europe's neighbourhood, increased support for europol and poverty reduction in the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. - i did. given the damage caused by the earthquakes in italy, it is important to provide all kinds of aid and support to italy. the resolution calls for greater flexibility in the calculation of deficits in relation to expenditure, asks the commission to consider making investments in reconstruction work and urges the commission to swiftly process the application of the european solidarity fund.
in writing. - i did. parliament may ask the commissioners-in-office for relevant information on their economic and other activities in order to enable them to carry out their duties with complete independence. however, the declaration of interests needs to be clarified and better rules on what and to what extent can interfere with the work of commissioners-designate.
in writing. - i did. the commission should work closely with member states to ensure that systems for compensation and financial guarantees for offshore oil and gas extraction processes are modernised in the eu and offer compensation for third party claims for traditional losses resulting from offshore oil and gas extraction processes, establish an effective compensation system to handle related payments and ensure that operators and other responsible parties have sufficient financial resources to meet compensation claims.
in writing. - i did. the situation in the drc is becoming increasingly tense due to the reluctance of president kabila to leave in accordance with the established procedure, the unrest in recent weeks has resulted in human casualties, media channels have been closed, people are being illegally detained and the number of people living in poverty and in need of food aid is increasing. the african union and the eu must ensure, through the means at their disposal, that the elections are nevertheless held in a timely manner in accordance with the congolese constitution and the african charter on democracy, elections and governance. it is important that all political actors engage in a peaceful and constructive dialogue as soon as possible. the eu can and should adopt sanctions against senior officials responsible for the violent repression of the protests and the political impasse. eu development fund funding in the congo should also be closely monitored and action taken if necessary.
in writing. - i did. the availability of energy is essential for all human activities, including basic needs such as clean water, sanitation, health, heating, etc. however, energy is not available to everyone today, and half of those without access to electricity live in africa. it is therefore important that the eu, for its part, also contributes to access to energy in developing countries. the resolution supports the commission's initiative 'energy for development', the eu's initiative to finance electricity supply, and also draws attention to the potential of renewable energy in africa.
in writing. - i did. this report applies the objective of the european order for payment procedure, which is to simplify the recovery of cross-border proceedings. creditors are thus given the possibility to recover unpaid product liabilities.
madam president, this winter package is about shaping european energy policy for a decade to come, and even longer, so this requires some forward-thinking. the commission got it right in clearly stating in its proposals that we are moving away from centralised generation towards decentralised production, with renewables and technology at the core, but all of this package needs to deliver on the statement and provide the right initiatives for the energy sector and consumers to move forward with this change. one key element is connectivity – connectivity between countries, connectivity between smart buildings, appliances inside homes and the grids, connectivity between car and home, connectivity to integrate more renewables to the grid. to deliver on connectivity, grids need to get smarter and we do need smart meters which are, as one expert says, the brain of the grids. so before we talk about more ambition in our renewables policy, we need to make sure that we get these key principles right.
in writing. - i did. the conclusion of the framework agreement will provide algeria with the opportunity to participate in certain eu programmes and agencies under the european neighbourhood policy, which could contribute to reform and innovation in the eu's neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ i did not support it because i believe that the compromise reached must be implemented. deep-sea fish stocks are at risk and additional measures are needed to preserve them, such as the establishment of a deep-sea fishing zone, penalties for vessels that violate deep-sea fishing rules and more transparent rules for fishing vessels.
in writing. - i did. the rules of procedure shall be reviewed on a regular basis. the aim of this is to make parliament's work more efficient, to clarify the rules, to increase transparency and to prevent sabotage of parliament. among other things, various measures to increase efficiency are being reduced, such as limiting the number of motions for resolutions, the number of questions to be answered in writing and the proposal to abolish written declarations. it also introduced the possibility of punishing a member for defamatory, racist or xenophobic behaviour which disrupts the work of parliament.
in writing. ‒ it is true that the rules of procedure needed to be updated on certain points. there were certain gaps and grey areas which had to be addressed and have been addressed in an appropriate way. some of the proposed changes, however, went against democratic principles. the proposal, for instance, to limit the submission of amendments to only full members and substitute members of committees is unacceptable. this puts members from small countries like estonia at a disadvantage, as they are not represented in every committee. we should be working on strengthening the democratic practice in the european parliament, not limiting the powers of single members who have been elected and represent a part of the population.
in writing. - i did. the report focuses on the state of fundamental rights in 2015, covering a wide range of areas, including migration, trafficking in human beings, women's rights, children, lgtb and also digital rights.
in writing. ‒ the report on the situation of fundamental rights is a good attempt to describe the current situation in the european union. many of the important issues have been addressed which require immediate attention: for instance, the issues which national minorities are facing in the european union, such as discrimination and obstacles to the enforcement of their rights. unfortunately, problems related to stateless persons in the eu have not been included in the main text and i see this as a big mistake. while many of the issues mentioned in the report do apply to this group, it would have been a stronger statement to mention stateless persons explicitly and their lack of rights when it comes to european and local elections.
in writing. - i did. the cultural and creative industries play a vital role in society, often acting as intermediaries between different sectors and groups in society. it is therefore important to establish a comprehensive and long-term action plan for cultural and creative industries policy to contribute to their competitiveness.
in writing. - i did. the situation of women's rights in the eastern partnership countries requires consistent attention and addressing in political and human rights meetings with the eastern partnership countries. however, social and economic discrimination against women is widespread in these countries and hinders women's participation in both the labour market and political life. violence against women and lack of access to sexual education are also a concern. the eu can contribute to the development of this area, for example through the instruments of the eastern partnership programme.
mr president, mrs mogherini, mr lambrinidis, we are debating last year’s human rights situation, but just now at this moment syrian government soldiers are slaughtering civilians in aleppo. a so-called solution there has been reached by trampling on all possible human rights and rules. the message we get today from aleppo is that ‘might is making right’. the eu’s role, obviously, is not only to take care of the refugees, which we are doing, but its role is to prevent these tragedies from happening as far as possible, and resolve the crisis. we remain, unfortunately, divided and hesitant. today’s sakharov prize winners, nadia and lamiya, called once again to bring to justice those who have committed crimes against humanity. the eu’s role should be to initiate something to implement this. in the past six years the european parliament has called, in three resolutions and two recommendations, to sanction individuals directly linked to the death of sergei magnitsky. why has there been no action taken on this so far? the us, canada and now my own country, estonia, have enforced the magnitsky list. by doing the same, the eu could possibly make a difference. what do we need? last week, mikhail kasyanov said that the best way to help the russian people – and that applies also to the syrian people – is for the eu to stay true to its own values and principles, to implement them in deeds and not only in words. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for this question. i think this is a very risky approach, to differentiate between evils. there can be manifold evils. we think about hitler or stalin in the second world war, and to ally with stalin against hitler brought about the slavery of east european nations for 50 years.
madam president, against the background of the latest news on us president-elect trump making rex tillerson the secretary of state, it is very timely to speak about eu-us relations in the context of world security. the development of good relations between the european union and the usa has been a decades-long process. we are allies and work together in trying to find solutions to various crises around the world, with the aim of promoting peace, the rule of law and respect for human rights. even today, we are closely working together in trying to bring an end to the war in syria and defeat isis and the terror they spread. we also have the same point of view when it comes to russian aggression in ukraine and georgia. we need to ensure that this good relationship between the eu and the united states continues, and again i come to the point that the european union must do more for its own security and defence. for starters, the eu member states need to set the goal of spending 2% of their gdp on defence, as the nato members have done, and cooperation between the eu and nato must be deepened.
madam president, mr brok’s report is an excellent one, integrating very well both old and new challenges because, first of all, this report is about implementation, which is often the weakest link in our system. i would remind us of the message in the previous report, by mr paşcu: ‘europe is no longer in control of its security environment and has lost the luxury of choosing the time and place of action’. what we need, it says, is ‘crisis prevention and crisis resolution’. aleppo is unfortunately a symbol of failed crisis-resolution, with a devastating moral and political price. this report also addresses the new front of security policy, that is, how to counter misinformation and propaganda. i think it is very important that we call for the eu institutions and member states to finally and clearly acknowledge that the ongoing information warfare is not only an external eu issue, but also an internal one. because propaganda and misinformation result in election outcomes, that is, a real change of power. one of my calls is also to establish an automated information-sharing system in the eu.
in writing. – our common foreign and defence policy has been in the making for decades and is long overdue. one of its main objectives is maintaining security and stability near the borders of the european union, and sometimes even behind those borders, as instability in our region can have repercussions on the union. another thing that would significantly contribute to stability behind our borders would be the creation of a kurdish state. according to different estimates, there are 25 to 30 million kurds in turkey, syria, iran and iraq alone, and millions of kurdish refugees elsewhere. the kurdish people have their own identity and form the world’s largest group without its own state. the creation of such a state would help stabilise the region.
in writing. - i did. this is an amendment to the regulation resulting from the application of the amended insolvency law framework in poland.
in writing. - i did. given that uzbekistan has taken positive steps towards the elimination of child labour in uzbekistan's cotton plantations, the conclusion of the agreement could further motivate them to pursue further reforms in this area. however, many observers estimate that child labor has been replaced by forced labor. this is unacceptable and the eu must monitor the situation very closely and take steps to put an end to such behaviour if necessary.
in writing. - i did. given that uzbekistan has taken positive steps towards the elimination of child labour in uzbekistan's cotton plantations, the conclusion of the agreement could further motivate them to pursue further reforms in this area. however, many observers estimate that child labor has been replaced by forced labor. this is unacceptable and the eu must monitor the situation very closely and take steps to put an end to such behaviour if necessary.
in writing. - i did. the agreement provides for the gradual opening of the market for goods, services, procurement and investment, including the abolition of most tariffs. this will allow ecuador to maintain preferential access to the eu market in a situation where ecuador becomes ineligible due to its classification as a high-income country by the world bank. however, the economic situation in the country is sufficiently complex. in addition, the agreement contains a chapter on trade and sustainable development, which contains ambitious provisions on employment and environmental protection, and aims to ensure predictable and stable environmental conditions for investors and businesses on both sides. the agreement will allow both sides to forge closer bilateral relations and to push for further economic and political integration of the andean region. it also provides an opportunity to enhance the political dialogue between the eu and ecuador, based on respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights.
in writing. - i did. the eu's common fisheries policy establishes a system for managing fish stocks in the waters covered by it, thus supporting the historical rights of fishermen. the agreement further supports the historical fishing rights in this area and also benefits the reformed common fisheries policy in the kattegat and skagerrak.
in writing. - i did. the eu's common fisheries policy establishes a system for managing fish stocks in the waters covered by it, thus supporting the historical rights of fishermen. the agreement further supports the historical fishing rights in this area and also benefits the reformed common fisheries policy in the kattegat and skagerrak.
in writing. - i did. europol and georgia wish to deepen their cooperation in order to strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime. in view of georgia's status as a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and as a key partner in the fight against criminal organisations in georgia, such cooperation is necessary.
in writing. - i did. in spain, 250 workers were made redundant due to a decline in the car industry's market share in the eu. the redundancies are a major blow to the region and the fund's support will help workers to return to the labour market more easily.
in writing. ‒ railway undertakings must have equal access to compensation and all undertakings involved in the sector must be entitled to claim benefits.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the changes is to improve the quality and efficiency of rail passenger services. the amendments concern transparency requirements, social provisions, notification and monitoring processes and the specificities of the railway sector in the case of internal controls.
in writing. ‒ the objective is to open up the market for rail passenger services and to promote infrastructure companies. those amendments should increase the level of competition and ensure financial transparency and fair funding conditions.
in writing. - i did. in order to make the trans-european transport network more efficient, ports will be made more efficient and will be helped to cope with changing transport and logistics requirements in the financial area.
in writing. - i did. the amendments to the regulation aim to simplify funding opportunities under the horizon 2020 programme and to make the management of the research fund's research programme more transparent.
in writing. - i did. the report focuses on the state of human rights and democracy in 2015, covering a wide range of areas, including migration, trafficking in human beings, women's rights, children, lgbt people and freedom of expression.
in writing. - i did. the eu and the us have enjoyed a good alliance for decades. cooperation across the world's hotspots is important, with the us and eu approaching and responding to different crises in a similar way in syria, the fight against terrorism and ukraine. this good relationship must continue with the new administration. at the same time, it is important that the eu itself develops its defence capability, so that it is prepared to defend its own security if necessary.
in writing. ‒ the report has been particularly unbalanced and contradictory: especially on the issue of propaganda, the wording in the report did not always reflect the reality. the intentions for foreign policy are unclear, as references are often made to building bridges and at the same time burning them down. i feel that in order to strengthen the position of the european union in the world, the approach of the european union should be different than the one described in the report. in the current political climate, the european union has to have a clear and stable approach to foreign and security policy. only then can we send the right message.
in writing. - i did. farmers suffer from constant price fluctuations and the market is unstable. member states may integrate cap solutions as appropriate, including risk management measures such as harvesting, animal and plant insurance and means of income stabilisation such as financial contributions to the common fund.
in writing. the suspension of visa-free travel should be revised to make it faster and more flexible. this will allow the eu to respond in an operational manner should a situation arise that threatens the eu's security, for example, or there is a sudden increase in the number of third-country nationals living illegally on eu territory. the review of this regime will also remove obstacles to progress in the visa liberalisation of ukraine and georgia. this is important because both countries have fulfilled the necessary criteria for some time and a decision on granting them visa-free travel should be taken quickly.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear members of the parliament, i heard your interventions very carefully. i want to assure you again that we are on the same side. we share the same objective: that is, nothing less than full visa reciprocity for all our citizens. this is our goal. our approach with canada brought positive results. it was not the result of blackmailing. it was the result of frank and friendly negotiations, and i know that because i was behind it. we didn’t resort to unilateral suspensions there, we did not damage our bilateral relations. on the contrary, with patient engagement, diplomatic contacts and explanations from all sides, we managed to get a concrete roadmap to visa liberalisation. your role, dear members, was crucial in that respect. mr díaz de mera, mr lópez aguilar, the commission, you know that, is a law-abiding institution. we are aware and conscious of our legal obligations, but as i said, it is not just about adopting the delegated acts, it is also about taking into account the consequences. i was very clear and frank before, not hiding behind pretexts, as i always am here. even adopting the act will most likely result in retaliations by the united states. as i said: yes, it is an unpleasant situation, but i have been, and i will keep on being, open and frank with you. i call on you to show some patience while the political transition in the united states is completed. once the new administration is fully in place, we will make the point as strongly as we can. eu citizens in their vast majority do not constitute a threat. for those very few that could potentially do so, our security framework is in place and is getting stronger every day. we will continue to work hard in close cooperation with the member states, with all member states concerned, and of course with you to resolve the remaining cases, and will keep you fully informed. next week as we committed last july, we will present the state of play in a second follow-up to our april communication. the road ahead will not be easy and we know it, but working together we can bring results in the case of the united states also.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, last sunday we were appalled when coptic christians were targeted as they were worshipping at st peter’s coptic orthodox church in cairo. at least 25 people were killed and many more injured in the bombing. our thoughts are with the victims and their families. the european union expresses condolences to them as well as to all the people and the government of egypt. an attack against egypt’s coptic community is an attack against all egyptians and against their wish to live peacefully together. i visited egypt recently because it is a key partner in the region for the european union on many issues and we had a very fruitful discussion on all issues. i also met president el-sisi and we also discussed security issues. they were aware that the situation is very difficult and attacks might occur at any moment. these attacks endanger a multicultural society, which egypt is and wishes to continue being. president el-sisi is equally concerned about the destabilisation of his country as a result of the permanent terrorist threat. i assured him that we are partners against this common threat and egypt has all our support. freedom of religion implies not only the freedom of belief, but also the freedom to worship, either individually or in a community, without fear or intimidation, discrimination, violence or attack. all people should be able to exercise their rights everywhere, based on the principles of equality, non—discrimination and universality. all states have an obligation to prevent violence based on religion or belief but, beyond this obligation, the prevention of this form of violence is also in the interest of every state because sectarian attacks make a society weaker, less cohesive and less resilient. in the middle east and north africa in particular, an attack against any ethnic or religious group undermines the very fabric of society. christianity belongs in the middle east and in north africa just as much as it belongs in europe. egypt’s christian community is as ancient as christianity itself. obviously terrorist groups and individuals are afraid of the middle east’s long history of diversity because it defies their weak narrative of a clash of civilizations. the egyptian authorities must now work to ensure that the perpetrators of this attack are promptly brought to justice and that there will be no impunity for sectarian attacks. overall, the number of terrorist attacks in egypt has grown in recent weeks. just two days before the attack on the church, there were two terrorist bombings in different parts of the country, killing security personnel. we stand on the side of the egyptian people in the fight against terrorism. it is a shared challenge which we must tackle together. terrorism, of course, needs to be addressed as a security issue. at the same time, measures to reinforce physical security will only be effective if police and judicial prevention and prosecution of terrorist acts is organised in a modern and effective manner. countering radicalisation and violent extremism is also of fundamental importance. we believe that a comprehensive approach is needed, including dialogue, education, the promotion of tolerance and pluralism, and adequate space for civil society. we are close to completing negotiations with egypt on the priorities for our bilateral partnership and this terrible incident shows how essential it is becoming for us to work together with egypt in this area, as in many others. the importance the european union attaches to freedom of religion and belief has also been reflected in the appointment by president juncker of mr ján figeľ as a special envoy for the promotion of freedom of religion or belief outside the european union. the eu special representative for human rights, mr lambrinidis, has also been actively engaged in the promotion of freedom of religion and belief during official visits to partner countries and in multilateral fora. our work to preserve religious diversity all around the world also has a financial dimension. for instance, the european instrument for democracy and human rights invests eur 11 million in programmes focusing directly on freedom of religion and belief. cooperation with our partners, both in governance and civil society will remain essential to all our efforts. from egypt to syria, the protection of diversity is – and will be -– a top priority in the years ahead. if there is one international actor that will always protect and defend the freedom of religion, it is us, the european union. let me therefore conclude by sending a strong message of support to egypt. we are all standing by egypt, united against the common threat of terrorism.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, a horrible crime was committed last sunday in cairo during a coptic worship, and we know that it has caused many, many victims. today is our opportunity to condemn this massacre, for which isis has taken responsibility, in the strongest possible terms and extend our solidarity to all victims of terror and violence. it is true that the government has a primary responsibility to guarantee security and equality of all religions in egypt. however, i think there are also some positive signals. the coptic pope tawadros declared that the terror attack was conducted not only against the coptic church but against all of egypt, and a leading islamic university, al-azhar, qualified the attacks against houses of worship and killing innocents as criminal acts that violate islamic principles. egyptian president el-sisi proclaimed a three-day national mourning and ordered state funerals. these demonstrations of shared solidarity are important. but now even more important is that the egyptian people as a whole will recognise the ownership of such tragedies and victims. that supposes that also in everyday life, people will start to treat co-citizens from different religions as equals and start to respect them.
author. – mr president, we had the resolution on the rohingyas in july this year. there has been no improvement in their situation; it has actually got much worse. the rohingyas are facing serious human rights abuses, indiscriminate reprisal attacks, security forces firing at villages, the torching of entire villages and people carrying out arbitrary arrests and raping women and girls. we do not have all the information because myanmar does not allow international observers into the region, but we have satellite images, pictures and videos of burned bodies, and testimonies from abused people. with all of this going on in myanmar, people are frantically fleeing to bangladesh, only to be pushed back, which is a violation of international humanitarian law. we must acknowledge that the myanmar government has not done much to help the situation of the rohingyas. also, aung san suu kyi, a sakharov and nobel prize winner, has not been helpful in her capacity. we cannot just watch these atrocities happen; the eu must use all the influence and means it has to bring an end to the abuse of the rohingyas and those responsible for the attacks must be brought to justice.
author. – mr president, commissioner, daesh has systematically murdered thousands of civilians and with the iraqi advances towards mosul, more and more mass graves are being discovered. they testify that crimes against humanity and war crimes are an essential part of radical islam. we appeal to the un security council and international organisations to consider daesh-caused mass graves as additional evidence of genocide. it is urgent to refer daesh, as a criminal organisation, to the international criminal court. it is important that these graves be preserved and that analyses be conducted to identify victims as well as perpetrators. the eu should also provide the expertise, means and assistance to do this. in the meantime, the iraqi authorities have a responsibility to protect civilians during the anti-daesh campaign, to avoid further human rights violations and vengeance.
in writing. - i did. the suspension of the visa exemption procedure should be revised to make it faster and more flexible. this will allow the eu to respond in an operational manner should a situation arise that threatens, for example, the eu's security or there is a sudden increase in the number of third-country nationals living illegally on eu territory. the review of this regime will also remove obstacles to progress in the visa liberalisation of ukraine and georgia. this is important because both countries have fulfilled the necessary criteria for some time and a decision on granting them visa-free travel should be taken quickly.
in writing. - no, he didn't. the resolution would restrict trade in citrus fruits by recognising only one fruit preservation measure. the resolution is over-regulatory and excludes many other equally useful conservation measures. this may result in a reduction in imports from third countries, thereby reducing the availability of fruit and increasing price volatility.
in writing. - i did. victims of thalidomide use and their families should be provided with compensation and other support necessary to improve their quality of life.
in writing. - i did. the development of paediatric medicines is very important and the technical barriers in eu regulations that inhibit innovation in the development of the best medicines must be removed.
in writing. - i did. the 2015 report shows that the majority of citizens turn to the european parliament for help on environmental, legal, internal market and fundamental rights issues.
in writing. ‒ the committee of petitions and its secretariat deal with hundreds of petitions every month. great progress has been made in order to provide petitioners with a timely response. however, more can be done in order to make the process better. therefore, i have proposed that all documents which have been digitally signed should be accepted by committee. this applies to digital signatures from all 28 member states. it is important that the process is as easy and convenient as possible, in order to remove all possible barriers for the petitioners. the procedure should be simple so that everyone can make use of it.
in writing. - i did. in the context of the european aviation strategy, the european commission can open negotiations on civil aviation safety with japan and china and on eu-level aviation agreements with china, turkey, mexico, the six gulf cooperation council member states, armenia and asean. the consent of the european parliament shall be required for the opening of negotiations.
