mr president, zero euros, that's how much corporate tax the five largest investment banks in the world paid to the uk in 2014. i don't need to tell you why the losses are booked in london and the profits in luxembourg. this has to change. eu competition policy cannot work if competition is not fair. thanks to the commission's investigations, the most egregious tax fraud has now been brought to light. but this is just the beginning. the eu needs a single corporate tax base and more transparency on the results of companies and the taxes they pay. this is the way to prevent the tax base from being eroded and to ensure fair competition.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, about half of eu citizens live in cities where transport is the biggest contributor to air quality. poor air quality causes more than 430 000 premature deaths in the european union each year and an estimated 940 billion in annual health costs. when we talk about air pollution, we are talking about a very significant problem. how, then, can the emissions of nitrogen oxides from transport be uncontrolled? where the emission limit laid down in the regulation is 80 mg/km, it is 80 milligrams/km instead of 168 and 120 milligrams. such exceedance of the binding emission limits is clearly in excess of the implementing powers provided for in the regulation and this proposal for a regulation should be withdrawn. i do not think it is a hallucination to say that in those years we could have had emissions controls and reliable emissions measurements and type-approval. in the eu member states too, one could imagine more sensible spending targets than the billions of dollars spent on the health effects of poor air quality. i am still waiting for a new proposal for a regulation that is more ambitious and more protective of people's lives and health.
madam president, and most beloved commission! i thought this time i would start by asking a simple and fundamental question that everyone can think about. what is the point of a democratic legislative process if it is undermined by people who are actually officials? is it not precisely the undermining of the basic democratic principles that has now led the commission to look down on poland and we to look down on the commission? the commission's so-called old solutions of letting emissions drift far beyond the frontiers have now come to their logical end. indeed, it is conceivable that volkswagen would never have been lured into the slippery slope of fraud if the eu had had a commission that had defended the legislator's intentions with a little more candor. in this particular sense the commission bears a huge responsibility, which it is now trying to evade by explaining that this is delaying all the programmes. thank you very much, but not for your work.
i have received one motion for a resolution at the end of this debate. this conversation is over. the vote will take place during the first part-session in february.
mr gerbrandy, this was not a point of order, it was a political point of order. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the report by julie wardin, drawn up on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the eu's fundamental values (2015/2139 (ini)) (a8-0373/2015)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 19 january 2016. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by mr balz, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on stocktaking and challenges of the eu financial services regulation [2015/2016(ini)] (a3-0360/2015).
in writing. youth unemployment has fallen in the eu over the past year. however, 4.5 million young people are still unemployed or unable to attend school. it's too much. in spain, nearly half of the youth are unemployed. in germany, the figure is 7%. such wide differences are not explained by the economic situation of the countries alone. we must therefore find out why certain member states are more successful than others in activating young people and share this information among member states.
the committee on transport and tourism has adopted an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs and all those involved in the preparation of this report. it is great to see that parliament is able to find common ground on an important matter. transport is one of the sectors to which digitalisation has a great deal to offer. i believe it will make everyday transport and logistics more seamless, safer, more resource efficient and more sustainable. while the transport sector has long been characterised by, among other things, improved traffic data collection and exploitation, this decade is witnessing an unprecedented redefinition of mobility, demand and supply with the advent of various digital platform-based mobility services and transport automation. i welcome the development and want to ensure that the steps towards digital operations, digital transport and digital services are taken on the basis of common rules and controlled practices, on the basis of the customer's conditions.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i would also like to thank all the rapporteurs and the other committees for the very good cooperation they have shown during this process. the epp supports this report and wants to speed up the digital single market in europe. we consider it very important for competitiveness, growth and jobs. we are worryingly lagging behind asia and the united states in the digital economy. europe needs more investment in high-speed networks. we must ensure that new digital services are on par with traditional products and services. this applies, for example, to electronic books. they should be taxed in the same way as a traditional book. we must also create a regulatory environment that encourages the development of new innovations and services in europe. we must be careful not to create too heavy a regulation, but to be sufficiently agile and flexible to take advantage of all these new opportunities that the internet brings. i am particularly pleased that in its own report parliament wants to get rid of unjustified geo-blocking, i.e. the use of land-based restrictions. it is important for consumers and businesses that digital services move across borders in europe like other services. the digital single market area of 500 million people is a great opportunity for european businesses, and we should now encourage all smes to take up this opportunity and also ensure that industry digitises and exploits these opportunities.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the european union faces challenges: where to invest? growth for europe from what? what jobs for europeans? what more efficient public services? and what makes young europeans believe in the future? in the midst of these challenges, we must seize the opportunities, and here we have one opportunity in the debate. the s&d group sees this as an opportunity to create new jobs and growth through digital markets. in recent years, the digital economy has grown much faster than many other sectors. the digital sector has created quality jobs. the commission's priorities are right in this respect. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. we can bridge the digital divide that has already been created, whether it's infrastructure or citizen skills. all citizens must have access to digital services both public and private services must be available. we must ensure that digitalisation does not become a new area of social exclusion, but that everyone is involved. europe must get back to the forefront of digitisation with the fifth generation of 5g networks. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information available to the public. the package now adopted supports the emergence of european innovation, the building of critical infrastructure for europe and the guarantee of a secure and open internet for citizens and businesses. european funds have a significant role to play both in research and development and in speeding up infrastructure investment when the market is not able to cover the creation of connections. european solutions are needed, because what good is the single market or digital services if they are always confined to national borders. we must make european content available to europeans, and we believe that fair value-added distribution can also be found through new applications. the potential of digitalisation must also be exploited in industry. investments in high-speed networks will lay the foundations for the industrial internet and the internet of things to bring new solutions to production and everyday life. to succeed in international competition, the current european industry must also be digitalised. the commission's studies show that companies doing so are less likely to move jobs abroad or to lay off people. as an engineer, i could only talk about technological change, but digitalisation is above all about social change, which requires strong political leadership. parliament is strongly involved in the creation of digital society rules with several new legislative projects. and what's important for us in the s&amp;d group is that digital is a natural new beginning for growth, for healthcare, for education, for the development of remote areas, for energy efficiency services and so on. it's important to do this in partnership with the rest of society so that the transition is safe for everyone.
the question of the blue card. you said that europe has lagged behind in digital development because we have placed too little trust in companies and individuals. i do not think that is the case, but the rather general analysis is that we are lagging behind because all 28 member states have their own data protection and other digital legislation. do you not see the importance of this european perspective in global competition?
mr president, the report by mr kallas and mr gebhardt is important and i look forward to commissioner ansip's reply to these speeches. one thing that has not been brought up here very much yet is that the commission should continue the investigation and open new investigations. what are the social dimensions of digitalisation, how does it affect work, how does it affect income distribution, how does it affect culture? why is this study important? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. i think it's particularly important to have confidence in algorithms and in what's called big data and the internet of things. trust is of the utmost importance if we are to make the most of the digital revolution.
‒ fair competition is the foundation of the eu's single market. ladies and gentlemen, this foundation is leaking. when a local small business struggles to meet its taxes and stay profitable, what does a multinational corporation do? transferring his winnings to luxembourg. tax planning is the accountants' euphemism for this theft, which distorts competition and puts businesses on a different footing. you have to face the facts. market integration in the eu has made it too easy for large multinational companies to shift profits. one trillion. this is the amount of corporation tax that is not collected annually in the eu. this much of our common money is going to disappear completely legally and completely immorally. this has to stop. companies with head offices in tax havens should be excluded from public tenders. i see no reason to give large construction projects, telecommunications projects or even elderly care services to companies which book their profits in tax havens and their losses in high-tax member states. that is why i am in favour of an eu-wide business register which tells the member state where the company pays its taxes. it is worth remembering that without common rules and transparency to ensure fair competition, our tax base will collapse. the money for the services provided by society is then taken from the earnings of low and middle income earners. it's short-sighted and wrong policy. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ businesses in women's and women-dominated sectors are unfairly burdened by the costs of parenthood. i would like to take a positive view of my neighbour sweden, for example, where the problem has been solved by introducing an insurance-based payment. this will equalize the costs between workers and employers. i think it is of the utmost importance that all employers and employees should be involved in the payment of the payments, since the children are common! the equalization of the costs of parenthood will give women a more equal opportunity to be both entrepreneurs and employees. it is wrong that the mother's employers now have to pay for the costs of parenting that are not covered by taxation. in addition, maternal benefits provide young women with permanent jobs instead of part-time jobs. at present, women are disadvantaged in their ability to seek employment.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, almost all new jobs in europe have been created by smes. however, only one third of entrepreneurs in the eu are women. so there is a lot of potential for growth in women entrepreneurs. we must also be determined to encourage women to become entrepreneurs and to remove the obstacles to entrepreneurship. the report highlighted the difficulties faced by women entrepreneurs in obtaining financing for their enterprises and the cumulation of housework and childcare for women. in many member states, paternity leave is not even known yet. historical and cultural attitudes also influence the education choices of girls. we must also encourage girls to take more of a more oriented education, including science, mathematics and technology. everyone, regardless of gender, should have the same opportunities to fulfil themselves and their dreams.
‒ the policy of austerity must not be directed at education, although there are certainly pressures in several countries. it's good to remember that it's a bet on the future! there's been a lot of talk about the arts and trying. as in this report, entrepreneurship is emphasised. but we must remember that not everyone becomes an entrepreneur. you can't put too much pressure on people because entrepreneurship is not for everyone. but that does not mean that we cannot create incentives for entrepreneurship and otherwise make it easier for small business owners. education must not be narrow. it has to be generic, it has to be useful to the industry. the final responsibility for guiding the work should lie with the company. it's part of the process. it must be remembered that training cannot be tailored to the needs of one employer. this would be a serious blow to the worker if he were to lose his job or if he wished to change his job. the training of young people must be based on digital skills and language learning. these will also provide a good basis for the future labour market. the apprenticeship system must not become a 'compulsory' form of cheap labour for the benefit of firms. although apprenticeships are becoming more common in some european countries, the same model does not apply everywhere, and this is something to bear in mind! the focus must remain on educational institutions. better education design requires the involvement of society as a whole, involving student and youth organisations in the design process, as well as ngos and the public sector. better planning in cooperation will better meet the needs of the labour market.
this conversation is over. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in saudi arabia and iran (2015/2518 ((rsp)).
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 162 of the staff regulations)
the next item is the report by nathalie griesbeck, drawn up on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the strengthening of the right to a presumption of innocence and to the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings (com (2013) 0821 - c7-0427/2013 - 2013/0407 (cod)) (a8-0133/2015).
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, 20 january 2016. written declarations (rule 162)
it is for the president to decide how many catch-the-eye speeches we will have.
the following joint debate is scheduled: report by vicky ford, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment (com ((2014) 0186 - c7-0110/2014 - 2014/0108 (cod)) (a8-0148/2015), on the report by catherine stihler, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on appliances burning gaseous fuels (com ((2014) 0258 - c8-0006/2014 - 2014/0136 ((cod)) (a8-0147/2015)); and report by antonio lópez-istúriz white, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on ropeway equipment (com (2014) 0187 - c7-0111/2014 - 2014/0107 (cod)) (a8-0063/2015).
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 162)
the question of the blue card. you said that we need less europe. i'm here to tell you that yesterday the first asylum seeker froze to death in lapland. from the eastern border, russia, there are more and more asylum seekers. the corrupt have been collecting payments. doesn't this border control need more europe? other you are categorically saying that less europe is needed to save lives?
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote against my group on this matter and to support parliament's objection to the commission's proposal. it wasn't a difficult decision. we should be reducing sugar, not increasing it. the commission proposal, if implemented, would have meant that the sugar content of baby food would have been three times higher than the world health organisation's recommendation. it is clear that this proposal does not promote the health of children and young people. numerous studies have shown that an overly sugary diet increases the weight of children and adversely affects their taste buds. in particular, infants should be protected from excessive sugar intake. for these reasons, the commission would do well to go back to the drawing board and present a more stringent proposal to parliament, in line with the who recommendations. i would also like to remind the commission that it should not take the food regulation lightly. i am personally opposed to genetically modified food and the excessive use of herbicides. often, food ends up with more waste than the manufacturer claims. i hope that these views will also be reflected in the commission's future work.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, the association agreements are very powerful tools to ensure that these three countries go through the necessary reforms that will result in the rule of law, democracy and respect of fundamental freedoms and human rights, and we have already seen that all three are struggling to go through those processes. it is not very easy, and we have to give them all the support we can. that is why i believe we have to show them that parliamentary oversight of these processes is important. we can also show them how the best practices of our eu member states have given parliament a real say on eu integration processes and the transposition of eu legislation. that is what we are trying to do in the european parliament right now. we can, perhaps, conclude that this parliamentary support has so far been the strongest in ukraine, and perhaps we can learn from that and adopt the same kind of means and procedures for moldova and georgia. i believe that to go through the necessary reforms of the justice sector, media freedoms, etc., is the best guarantor of independence and sovereignty for these countries, and we all know that russia casts a very long shadow over all three. we also need to make sure that there is a full monitoring of the reforms, that they are not just for show, and there i believe that the eu could do even better. concerning the forthcoming referendum in the netherlands, we should take note of it. we should hope that the dutch people are fully aware that this is about ukraine’s place in the geopolitical landscape – whether it will have the right to join europe as it wishes, or whether it will be left at the mercy of russia. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you very much for this interesting question. i really believe that the independence today means that we can also pool our forces across national borders, but we are doing it in a voluntary way in the european union. i think it is absolutely incorrect that you make this comparison between what used to be the soviet union and what is the european union today.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, first of all, i am very pleased that both these oral questions to the commission and the resolutions of the committee on international trade (inta) on the opening of the free trade negotiations with australia and new zealand are included together in this debate. the eu has actually been negotiating free trade agreements with many third countries for many years, creating stable economic relations which make economic growth possible and leave us less vulnerable in cases of instability. but we are still lagging behind in this field. the eu is the only big trading bloc which has not negotiated an fta with one of the most important global economies, australia. this is all the more surprising as the eu has long traditions with both australia and new zealand, cooperating closely in many fields, and we share the same fundamental values. moreover, we should not be left behind and out of the circle which is starting to build up around australia, new zealand, asia and north america. by deepening and strengthening cooperation and good relations with these countries, we could set international standards and promote fair and sustainable values for trade. so i have to ask the following question: why has the eu not yet started negotiations with australia and new zealand? both the eu and australia and new zealand have clearly stated that we are willing to start this procedure, and i am strongly convinced that all of these countries would benefit from this agreement. as has been the case with all the other fta negotiations, we would have the power to negotiate the substance of the fta. i strongly urge the commission to start preparing the scoping exercise very soon and fully commit to taking the next step towards negotiating a mutually beneficial fta with australia and new zealand.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the joint resolution on the mutual defence clause. the title of the resolution is misleading. article 42 (7) is concerned with mutual assistance. the use of the term mutual defence is intended to convey the idea that there is an obligation to provide military assistance. the text of the resolution aims to develop the eu into a military alliance and the european pillar of nato. i won't stand for this.
mr president, as has been made clear many times in this debate, china is not a market economy and we are discussing whether we can declare it or accept it as a market economy. i do not think so, because we should first support china in its development of democracy, human rights and common values and norms. i would also like to add the environmental issues that have been raised here, the rights of workers and so on. of course, the dumping which is practiced in the steel industry in particular is also a big problem. however, i believe that china must come to the table of a common market economy through common values, which does not mean that everything is just free, but that there are common ethical guidelines and rules for trade, rules for fair trade. i hope, therefore, that china can be helped to develop so that it can one day in the future achieve market economy status, but unfortunately not yet.
in writing. the granting of market economy status to china is a major legal and economic issue. but it's not just about the money. china is committing blatant and callous human rights violations every day. this is an undeniable fact which the eu's preferred quiet diplomacy has not succeeded in altering. we've tried it with money. between 2002 and 2010, the eu invested close to eur 500 million in projects to support china's transition towards an open rule of law. what did we get in return? we got a government that kidnaps booksellers. in hong kong, five publishers who had published a book critical of president jinping recently disappeared. when the story broke, the men were found in china, in custody. but this case is just the tip of the iceberg. in china, critics of the one-party system are routinely imprisoned and "re-educated". you can't sweep these things under the rug. i believe that human rights should also be taken into account when discussing the granting of market economy status to china.
mr president, the flows of refugees are not evenly distributed among the member states. now they're calling for a fairer burden sharing. all right, let's be fair and start with this: finland has suffered more than anyone else from the trade sanctions against russia. the eu has also been involved in a number of other international agreements, including the wto's wto agreement on trade and development. who's gonna make it up to me? no, i'm not advocating for sanctions to be lifted now. it would send the wrong message to the kremlin. but i'm all for fairer burden sharing. if the flow of refugees is to be balanced, the burden of trade sanctions should also be shared between the member states. so what would be the appropriate mechanism for this? i'd like to talk to you about this.
mr president, the competence for corporate taxation is currently in the hands of the national states. this is problematic because aggressive tax planning is multinational in nature. i agree with the recommendations of the resolution adopted by parliament in december and i hope that they will also be reflected in the work of the commission. it is clear that better coordination of national tax policies is the only way to eliminate tax regimes that favour multinational enterprises at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises. and the popular one is facebook founder mark zuckerberg, who was booed in december when he announced that he would give 99 percent of his wealth to charity. that's very good. of course, mr. zuckerberg could have paid his taxes, too. let's help him with his work.
in writing. ‒ the rate of loss of biodiversity is alarming. the extinction of species and the collapse of ecosystems are the most serious threats facing humanity, alongside climate change and the unsustainable use of resources. the state of europe's nature is deteriorating. we are leaving future generations with a worse life prospect. the objectives of the eu biodiversity strategy for 2020 will not be met. the eu cannot, by its own actions, stop progress. this requires a complete change in consumption patterns. agriculture and forestry are of great importance to finland. their impact on biodiversity is crucial. all actors have already taken this into account and are increasingly taking diversity into account. there is much more that can be done. the various economic incentives must be directed towards supporting sustainable development. the best preservers of biodiversity are natural and sufficiently large contiguous areas. there must be enough of them. finland still lives off the forest. finland is a forest. our fate is in how we manage our forest resources. we have to balance between different cross-cutting pressures: the economy needs to be paid for, the forests need to be used and cared for. at the same time, they must be kept in good repair to protect biodiversity. the oldest known tree in finland is 800 years old. as it began to grow, the fourth crusade was launched in europe, cambridge university was founded, and genghis khan began his conquest. i want the pine that is now growing somewhere to see the next 800 years and i hope that they are good for both finns and our forest.
in writing. ‒ the mid-term review of the biodiversity package voted today was a simple sign of the concerns and threats that were identified in the review. naturally, the matter is quite clear. the state of biodiversity is of great concern, both in the eu and worldwide. in the eu, three quarters of habitats are in poor condition and species loss is continuing. with a few positive exceptions, the overall picture is bleak and deteriorating. we do not think that new frameworks or legislation are needed, but that the most important thing now is to monitor the implementation and enforcement of the existing frameworks and legislation. this is the best way to ensure that the principles of biodiversity are also applied in the future. for these reasons, we could not accept this assessment in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the mid-term review of the biodiversity package voted today was a simple sign of the concerns and threats that were identified in the review. naturally, the matter is quite clear. the state of biodiversity is of great concern, both in the eu and worldwide. in the eu, three quarters of habitats are in poor condition and species loss is continuing. with a few positive exceptions, the overall picture is bleak and deteriorating. we do not think that new frameworks or legislation are needed, but that the most important thing now is to monitor the implementation and enforcement of the existing frameworks and legislation. this is the best way to ensure that the principles of biodiversity are also applied in the future. for these reasons, we could not accept this assessment in the final vote.
the question of the blue card. you said we should involve the public. i think the public has been exceptionally supportive. the red cross has organized the lives of asylum seekers in countries across europe. it's been a fantastic activity. how dare you say that the citizens have not been involved. this is the problem with the decision-making in the member states and the european union.
mr president, last year the migration pressure shifted from the central mediterranean to the eastern mediterranean route. greece does not register the migrants as it should, which is understandable from the greek point of view, as the relocation mechanism does not and will not work. the development is not sustainable. germany, for example, expects to spend eur 50 billion on migrants this year and next. there are hundreds of thousands of frustrated young migrant men in germany, sweden, finland and other countries with no realistic chance of finding employment or even decent accommodation. the social and political consequences of migration will be severe. we must have the courage to admit that we cannot solve this crisis by taking people in. no matter how many we accept, there will be millions more coming from africa and the middle east. we should consider starting systematic pushbacks, at least in the eastern mediterranean and the balkans, sending applicants back to camps and processing all applications there. if those people make it to europe, they will stay here, whether or not they are granted international protection. we must stop asylum-shopping. each member state should be obliged to refuse to accept asylum applications from people who are arriving from, and via, another member state.
the author. mr president, the biocidal products regulation required the commission to adopt delegated acts by 13 december 2013 specifying the scientific criteria for the identification of endocrine disrupting properties. that's not what happened. by failing to adopt delegated acts, the commission has manifestly failed to fulfil its obligation to take the measures for which it is legally responsible. in july 2014, sweden, supported by several member states, including my home country finland, brought an action against the commission for failure to fulfil its obligations. the action was won in december 2015. despite the general court's ruling, the commission has been very selective in adopting delegated acts setting out the criteria. why has the commission been so slow to define the criteria? there are several examples of the commission's power to adopt delegated acts on matters not covered by delegated acts. and since delegated acts are rightly sought by the power of the court, they can be dragged from you mainly by means of flashlights. hormone disruptors are a very serious matter. the most at risk are fetuses, whose organs and metabolism can be altered by exposure. so we must bring the delegated acts to the table immediately to establish scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties, and soon! or, commissioner, should they come to the commission and collect it themselves?
mr president, hormonal disruptors affect not only the health of people but also the intelligence of future generations, of the whole of europe. we all know that they have long-lasting, long-term and irreversible effects. often the consequences are not felt until the next generation. these criteria are therefore urgent and scientific evidence is also not available at present. there is also a very broad scientific consensus among experts in the field on how endocrine disruptors are defined and also on how efficacy is measured. it is not a question of a lack of criteria, but of the commission not presenting them to this parliament. we are not getting anywhere with pesticide legislation, biocidal legislation, food packaging or reach on the chemical content of clothing and the chemical content of firefighting. the court has recently ruled that an impact assessment is not necessary. it's about survival and people's health. not about what, for example, is the economic impact. the commission is also right to demand that the member states respect the rule of law, for example in the case of poland and hungary. the least that can be expected of the commission is that it will itself respect the rule of law and correct this failure and bring the criteria very quickly without a specific impact assessment to parliament. i personally doubt that the will and desire to defend the health and credibility of the citizens are seriously at stake.
mr president, the forthcoming eu summit is of great importance for the future of the eu as a whole. we must solve the asylum crisis. we need a common immigration policy. new decisions must be taken, but it is even more important to implement the decisions already taken. the establishment of coordination centres, external border control, a more equal distribution of migrants and asylum seekers across the eu, all these have been half-hearted or even unrealised. now the member states really have to take this seriously and implement the decisions that have already been taken. it is about the credibility of the eu as a whole. the second question concerns the uk's membership of the eu. i don't think the model you presented yesterday is a good way to make a deal. the eu needs the uk and the uk needs the eu. however, it must be remembered that even at the present time the united kingdom has many more derogations in its own terms than any other member state.
in writing. the president of the european council, donald tusk, made a proposal this week to respond to the uk's demands for special treatment. the eu cannot move forward in decision-making unless it finds solutions by unanimity. this principle means that there is no automatic mechanism to pull the uk further into european integration. but that does not mean that britain can use its veto if the eurozone wants to move forward. the european union has always progressed through the various voluntary channels, so that cooperation - including emu - remains open to all. this must remain the basic idea of integration. the more complex proposal concerns in principle social benefits and the right of member states to withhold benefits for workers from other eu countries. the development of social europe has been left to the economy and the internal market, and it is therefore regrettable that the content of this sector is the first to be compromised. it would be unfortunate - first and foremost for the uk itself, but also for the eu as a whole - if negotiations on leaving were to begin.
in writing. ‒ genetically modified food still carries many unknown risks. it is not just about the impact of these products on human health, but also on the environment as a whole. it is important to remember that gm varieties are a new thing. no long-term study data are available. we simply do not know how exposure will affect people or nature over decades. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. lack of information and irrevocability of decisions are major risk factors. it is essential that all decisions be made with safety first. for these reasons i decided to vote in favour of the proposals for development and at the same time for traditional and safe food production.
i think it is very important, mr president, that attention is now being paid to this issue in such a way that the right emission levels are also achieved in europe and in the european car industry. however, we must also remember that in addition to environmental issues, we must also ensure that car manufacturers are brought into the same global emissions levels. i therefore see that the commission's proposal can be accepted as it stands and that it can be taken forward. but i think that we in europe must take care of our own competitiveness, our own industry and our own companies, and try to challenge the situation in such a way that the whole of global industry is subject to the same rules. when trade is global, global, it is also possible to ensure that the rules are uniform and thus protect the whole planet, the whole environment.
mr president, first of all, it must be remembered that the tisa agreement is a renewal, or an update, of the gatt agreement. the world has changed and commerce has changed and e-commerce has come along. i also have to remember, if you're reading this text, that public services are excluded. member states retain the right to regulate which services are public services and which are education or health services. they're outside the scope of this agreement. now that the eu is negotiating with the other 22 wto members, some have singled out certain countries. it would probably be appropriate not just to bring up chile and costa rica, but to say that there is australia, there is canada, there is new zealand, there is norway, there is switzerland. all countries which are very important trading partners for us. it is also very good that trade in services is being extended to those countries which are our natural partners and, of course, to other countries. it is worth remembering that the european union is the largest producer of services in the world. in this respect, i believe that the agreement, now updated, will increase our employment and our economic growth. if i understand correctly, this parliament wants economic growth for europe. we want more jobs. this is one chance to do it, when it's used properly. with the restrictions that we have here, i believe that this is a safe way forward.
in writing. ‒ a trade agreement aimed at liberalising international trade in services is important for the european union. i thank commissioner malmström for making the eu's negotiating positions public. however, the level of transparency in the tisa negotiations is not the same as in the ttip negotiations. of the members of the european parliament, only the members of the inta committee can see the negotiating table of all the countries. all trade negotiations must be conducted with at least the same level of transparency as the ttip negotiations. all members should have the right to be informed of the progress of the negotiations, as in the case of the ttip negotiations.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on the un convention on transparency in treaty-based investor-state arbitration by bernd lange and salvatore cicu, on behalf of the committee on international trade [2015/2930(rsp)].
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on ending sexual harassment and violence against women in public spaces (2016/2539(rsp)).
i would like to inform the house that, in agreement with the political groups, the council does not take part in this debate.
madam president, so much happened on new year’s eve in cologne and many other cities that even the media and the european left could not ignore it. but let us not pretend this is something new: it is not. for years and decades, immigrants from the middle east and north africa have been hugely over-represented in european sexual and violent crime statistics. only the numbers have changed. our approach to this problem is rather naive. we think that if we put those young men into a classroom and teach them about gender equality, they will suddenly abandon their old ideas and values and become nice european social democrats. that does not happen. if you transfer people from the middle east to europe, they will bring their middle east way of thinking with them. do these young men behave the way they do because they do not know that it is wrong? no, they want to show us who is the boss now and who rules the public space.
mr. speaker, alone and in the dark, i saw us finnish women running without fear. i don't know about european values, these big words that are so heavily cultivated here. i'd like to keep this running, though. sexual release, i'd like that too. the fact is, in many authoritarian muslim countries, sex is a problem. homosexuality and female sexuality in particular are taboo. when you're denied what you want, you create a bottleneck. the consequences are known: harassment in cologne, helsinki, anytime, anywhere. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. in this job, we all have room for improvement.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement: introduction of compatible systems for the registration of pet animals across member states (2016/2540(rsp))
mr president, our humanity is measured by how we treat animals. as we have heard many times here, the growing puppy industry and also the large-scale importation of unsuitable species for pet use is gross animal cruelty, and very gross crime and money laundering. the existing solution is both administratively simple and cost-effective. most kennels and cat breeding associations and other responsible pet registries already have their own registers which could be combined, in accordance with the model already in place, into a european database from which the origin of the animal can be traced and also its sex, for example to prevent inbreeding. in the same context, it is also possible to determine which species are suitable for pet use through the so-called positive pet list. the commission has been sitting on this for quite some time. in a number of informal settings, most commissioners have already promised this positive list and pet register in the last four years. i hope that this debate will give us a clear response and also a clear commitment from the commission to create this register, because it is not a question of costs, it is not a question of over-regulation, it is simply a question of how we take responsibility for animals.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.45 p.m.)
the question of the blue card. mr president, i would like to ask you, mr verhofstadt, who i know as a skilled speaker and a passionate european, the same question you asked mr fox: are you aware that members of your group, for example in my home country of finland, are also fighting for the euro and apparently also with the group's money?
in writing. mr president, the agreement negotiated with the united kingdom is a balanced package and provides solutions to the issues that the united kingdom has identified as problematic. on the other hand, it is important for the future and unity of the eu that the threat of withdrawal from the eu does not give any special exemptions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is therefore important, in the interests of fairness, that the other member states should also be given the same opportunities for new flexibilities as those promised to the united kingdom. the uk must also accept that the treaty now being negotiated will not be reopened - whatever the outcome of the uk referendum. it is important for europe that the united kingdom remains a member of the eu. the united kingdom is important to the european union, economically, in terms of security and intellectually. it is one of the largest, most stable and prosperous countries in the union and an important link between europe and the united states. i believe that the united kingdom also benefits from membership and wants to continue to be the one to make the decisions that will affect it in any case. the acute immigration crisis, for example, is also something that can best be solved together. so the eu needs britain and britain needs the eu.
mr president, in europe, go east, go west. ask the north, ask the south, you'll get the same answer. everyone wants economic growth. there is no disagreement in parliament on this. the key to economic growth is in brussels or in the member states? there's a difference of opinion. as we know, the european union is now recovering from the worst economic crisis in its history. the journey back to growth has begun, with some member states doing better, others less so. i think that the growth report presented by mrs rodriguez contains good ideas for strengthening european economic growth. increasing public investment and strengthening domestic demand are key to getting the wheels of the economy turning again. but these matters should not be decided in brussels. the best way to support growth is to take the right decisions in the member states' own parliaments.
i would also like to add my voice to the compliments that have been expressed here to the ombudsman for his good work. i would also like to thank him and his office for their efficient work. your office, according to these documents, has only 67 employees and you do an efficient job. compared to the offices of most political groups, they have a much larger staff, so your activities would certainly need to be given more resources so that you could operate even more efficiently and better and concentrate on certain issues. but i have a wish for you. the lisbon treaty states that the eu will have legislation on good governance. we don't have one right now. there is only the ethical guidelines for good administration drawn up by the ombudsman's office. i know that your office has been working on this, and you are not the obstacle. the obstacles are the commission, the council and opposition here in parliament too. good governance and binding legislation are important for citizens, but they are also important for civil servants. at present, citizens cannot appeal to the courts because there is no binding legislation. the legal position of civil servants is also poor in the absence of binding legislation.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, madam vice-president, thank you for your presentation and for the assessment made available yesterday. the assessment arrived right on time for this discussion, although we had to wait for two years for it. so yesterday with the paper in our hands, we already knew what the reality out there is. we had gotten the information from out there. which, by the way, gives me reason to ask this little side question: besides the tobacco industry, does the commission have any other sources of information than the member state listings of seized cigarettes exceeding 50 000 smuggled cigarettes? no matter how well the industry takes care of its responsibilities, smoking as such is annually causing well over eur 30 billion of damage to our economies, not even mentioning the immense human suffering. while the commission’s staff working document provides us with a comprehensive view of where we stand with the pmi agreement, i must say, even after the words you have just said, that after such a long wait i wished for a more thorough assessment about what all this means. the reality that is out there: the amount of illegal cigarettes is still about the same – at least, it is too much. so should we prolong the pmi agreement or not? if the answer is yes, then what should it consist of? if we do not know yet – if we do not know before 2019 or 2022 – then that is wasted years. we are running out of time, as the agreement with pmi expires in july and we really need to know now what the future is about, because we need more strong action for this.
ms gardini, the house has heard what you had to say.
thank you, ms toia, we have heard what you had to say. the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr preda, we are not having a debate today, we are having a vote. we have already discussed this in strasbourg.
that concludes the vote.
ms morvai, i am sorry but there was a technical reason.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the adoption of the european parliament's report on the european semester of economic policy with regard to the 2016 growth report. i voted against the report mainly because it took a favourable view of the five-chairman plan for the development of the euro area. i can't agree to this. the five-chairman plan aims, among other things, for a solidarity-based banking union, a common euro area budget with permanent funds transfer systems and a common treasury. the deeper integration of the euro area, which the report calls for, will take decision-making power away from the governments of the euro area countries and into the hands of the supranational level, far from the member states and their citizens. i don't approve of this development.
in writing. - mr. president, here are the keys to our country. please, brussels, take it from there. drive carefully. this is the feeling i got when i read these suggestions. the european minimum wage? are we really asking the commission to take such an initiative? it is not a small step for europe, but a giant leap for federalism. i understand that the rapporteur, mr ribeiro, has had good intentions. i think, however, that we should leave social policy to the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because i think that minimum wage initiatives should not be taken at european union level. the report also included other problematic points where the eu is entering the area of national competence in labour market issues.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament often takes a stand on matters that are not necessarily its business. while improving the employment situation in the member states is desirable, the eu cannot be the driving force behind employment policies in very different economies. in accordance with this principle, i could not support the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the eu-tunisia free trade agreement supports the stable development of tunisia. this free trade agreement will help to create a peaceful balance for the whole of north africa by developing cooperation between the eu and tunisia.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to say that i am in favour of the report. this is how few eu citizens voted in the 2014 european elections, the lowest ever. there are many reasons for the lack of interest, and i would like to highlight transparency. there's not enough. how can a citizen form an opinion on the ttip negotiations if the documents are classified? how can the public have confidence that lobbyists will not dictate policy if meetings are not recorded accurately and published conscientiously? the european ombudsman has asked for and received more transparency. this is a work that deserves our support and respect.
in writing. - i want to clarify why i voted against amendment 12. the profit-sharing of the ecb budget will not be allocated to the budget of the european union but to the member states, which are the original contributors of the profit-sharing of the budget. the eu should not take extra money from a member state bypassing it.
in writing. ‒ the report on the annual report 2014 of the european central bank contained a few points that i could not accept. the report mentions, among other things, that the ecb's 2012 statement 'we will do everything possible to defend the euro' and the ecb's increased influence are desirable, and these formed a whole that i cannot support. i therefore abstained from voting on the report on the annual report in the final vote, because i am opposed to increasing the power of the ecb.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the opening of negotiations on free trade agreements with australia and new zealand is of great importance for the economic growth of the european union, especially from the point of view of small and medium-sized enterprises. australia and new zealand are two of the six wto members with which the eu does not have a free trade agreement in force. australia, new zealand, japan and the united states cooperate through free trade agreements. the eu cannot be left out of this cooperation without taking into account all the major economies in the world.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to go around it. take the example of the nordic countries. we have a healthy and varied school meal for the children every day. meals are paid for through taxes, so even children from poor families enjoy good school meals. there's not gonna be a separate receipt for anyone's house. the best part about the system is that it pays for itself. once a child has established healthy eating habits, he will eat better as an adult. the results are well known: less obesity, less disease and less strain on the economy. the support system we are now discussing is a step in the right direction. the eu and its member states should do more to support healthy school meals.
mr president, the animal health act is an important piece of legislation. it links together animal and human health for the first time. this is looking into the future. animal-to-animal and animal-to-human communicable diseases are one of the major security threats of the 21st century. there is a lot of good in the work of selimovic, and i would like to highlight one particular aspect of this, namely responsible animal medication. overuse of antibiotics is short-sighted and dangerous. fortunately, awareness of the risks associated with antibiotics is growing. i hope that this will be taken into account in future legislative work.
mr president, there has been a very national debate on the port services regulation. so i dare to describe the situation from the perspective of my home country, finland. the port of nîmes has undergone a major transformation in recent years, as it became a public limited company in early 2015 and operates under market conditions. the objectives set out in the regulation under consideration are thus already commonplace in the activities of our finnish port authorities. i think it is particularly important that all of europe should have a uniform regulatory framework for the organisation of port services and for the transparency of public funds for port investments. as far as the regulation is concerned, the end result may not be perfect or flawless, but for me it's good enough. i thank the rapporteur and the various groups for their persistent work and i hope that parliament will maintain its coolness to the end and vote on this matter tomorrow.
mr president, the proposal is a good one. sure, it's watered down, delayed and partially imperfect, but at the end of the day, it's got more good than bad. eu ports need uniform, non-discriminatory rules of the game. transparency and open procedures are in everyone's interest. the proposal now before us will in turn strengthen these rules. that's why i'm for it.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr jávor, on his very comprehensive work. with the eu’s annual budget we are talking about roughly eur 150 billion of taxpayers’ money. citizens quite rightly want to know that this money is not being fiddled with. the bad news is that, in 2014, eur 538 million of eu expenditure and revenue were affected by fraud. this is unacceptable and must be corrected. controlling the use of money and punishing fraudulent acts is of the utmost importance. to achieve this, at least three things have to be done. firstly, the commission must be as proactive as possible in following the use of our money. secondly, the member states must consequently be held more accountable for tracking the projects and providing correct data to the commission. thirdly, logically, the member states must have a common goal in fighting fraud. this may eventually help achieve the long—unfulfilled objective of making the eppo finally materialise. but these things need to be delivered, not just talked about here in strasbourg, so i hope the member states are listening. i know the commission is. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– unfortunately, there was no interpretation, but my german is probably fluent enough to understand that you asked why we need another agency and when we already have olaf, why we need the european public prosecutor’s office. greetings to my german teacher of 40 years ago! well, as it is, olaf does not actually have jurisdiction to deal with fraud inside the member states, and only the national authorities have that right, but they cannot go over the border. so there is obviously a gap, and this is what i believe the commission is trying to fill, and we have been waiting for this to happen for about 15 years. the time is now ready for that.
in writing. the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud are important components of a sound economic policy. i would also like to mention tax evasion, which is one of the most difficult problems facing the union. i will take a practical example from finland. the electricity grid company caruna evaded taxes by channelling its money through the netherlands. of the €50 million profit, only €800,000 was paid in taxes to finland. after the profits had been written off, the company informed consumers that it would increase the electricity transmission prices by less than one third. this has led to a lot of criticism from the public - and rightly so. i wanted to bring this case to the attention of this house because a package of measures to prevent tax evasion is currently on the table in the council of ministers. i hope the council of ministers will not water down the commission's proposal now. the protection of the eu's financial interests requires not only the fight against fraud but also the prevention of tax evasion.
mr president, the eu has little to offer to the digital world at the moment. think of your homes and offices: do you carry european equipment in your pocket or handbag, or do you use european software? europe must get its act together, otherwise we will be buying equipment from asia and content from the united states and producing nothing ourselves. well, at least we know something. for example, in the infrastructure side, our computer network companies are the best in the world, and the gaming and security companies are taking over the world. but will mass data create new jobs for us? the eu is needed to create a digital single market. we urgently need standards and more uniform consumer protection and data protection legislation. they're helping small businesses and start-ups in particular, and, of course, people. we can help european businesses by investing in broadband, innovation policy, workforce training and data centres. the eu can also be the best user of open data and make a european brand out of good data security. ownership and evaluation of data may still be unclear. we can make the eu a smart and resourceful player in the digital world market and we can create millions of jobs in europe, but we must act now.
i declare open the 2016-2017 session of the european parliament.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the socio-economic situation of women in europe.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by mary honeyball, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu [2015/2325(ini)] (a8-0024/2016).
i would also like to join those who are thanking honeyball for a very good job and i think it is very hypocritical of those who say that this report somehow exceeds the powers of parliament and the eu. we must recognize that the rights of all women are universal. now that we have looked through this report at the specific situations and threats faced by women asylum seekers and refugees, we also understand that we must provide them with services which take account of their specific situation and vulnerability. i think it is important that this report should say that they also have access to these sexual and reproductive health services, which are specifically for women, and i hope that on this international women's day parliament will indeed recognise that we must protect vulnerable groups, including refugees and asylum seekers in particular.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this year the european parliament has rightly chosen the theme of international women's day as the status of women among asylum seekers and refugees. there has been a lot of talk in the media about the small share of women in the total number of refugees, but according to recent unhcr data, the share of women has been increasing since the end of last year. in fact, since january of this year, more than half of the asylum seekers have been women and children. the number is not the most important thing, but as the proportion of women among refugees increases, so does the need for a more inclusive asylum policy. women have special needs, particularly in terms of health and safety. we can alleviate the situation of women asylum seekers by quite simple means, such as providing them with adequate accommodation and training interviewers to identify areas of expertise for women, which would allow them to enter the workforce and other social activities more quickly. in addition, the networking of migrant women with each other and with the women of the native population should be promoted. asylum seekers also need their own, low-threshold health services, including sexual health counselling, and a safety net for possible crisis situations.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr selimovic, and his predecessor, mr poulsen, who has now retired, for their very meritorious work on this report. animal welfare is an important issue that we have to take care of, and this report actually linked animal welfare to public health for the first time. the reduction of antibiotic use at european union level was indeed an important point. this will ensure that antibiotics can be effectively used in humans in the future. now, the residues in the meat of the animals have weakened the effect of the antibiotics. it is very important that cooperation between member states is established in this area, and as we live in a market economy and in the single market, it is also important that not only national but also european-wide concern for animal health and therefore public health is taken into account.
mr president, i am delighted with this report, for which i thank the rapporteur, mr tarabella. i know that this is not a core issue for the european union, but it is very important to deal with public health issues of this kind, such as school eating habits. the way in which school meals are organised varies from one country to another, but it is still good to promote the public health aspect of healthy food, because we in the european union are currently suffering from second-degree diabetes and obesity, which is due to the fact that the eating habits of young people are very high in sugar and of the wrong type. in this respect, the milk and fruit project is very good. i would also like to draw attention to mr hannani, who has also found a critical view of the eu in this speech. he is true to his line, for which i congratulate him, unlike his prime minister cameron, who has turned his line 180 degrees and today speaks speeches written by ex-mp andrew duff. so here's a little thank you to daniel.
in writing. ‒ it is important to have common european rules on how port services are organised. as a member of the board of the finnish ports association, i also strongly support the use of public funds in port investment to be transparent. in finland, this law does not necessarily require port managers to change their activities. in our ports, we now operate as joint stock companies and we have considered this arrangement to be a success. i also thought it was good that the law would not weaken the rights of workers and that its aim is to make the work of dock workers safer throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ the port services directive has been in the works for a long time and ports should be able to determine their own charges. in addition, there must be a uniform legal framework throughout europe for the organisation of port services and for the transparency of public funds in port investment. in some member states, port services have already been opened to public tender, so a uniform practice in this sector is desirable. that is why i support the report.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i am in favour of the rights of women, children and sexual minorities. they are human rights, values which the eu should always promote, rain or shine. the honey ball report comes true on a rainy day. it calls, among other things, for the opening of new legal entry routes for refugees. this would further increase the attractiveness of the eu and increase the number of out-of-towners. i cannot support this policy. and should lgbt people be given more attention in the refugee crisis? i'm sure you should. but is this the primary concern now? dead children wash up on the shores of europe and we are here to speak out for equal treatment of lgbti people. let's focus on the important stuff.
madam president, the european union has not been very successful in dealing with the migration catastrophe. the failed relocation mechanism is just one example of the union trying to impose something that neither the member states nor the migrants are interested in. the most urgent thing is to stop asylum shopping. people come to greece and italy because from there they have been able to travel unhindered to a handful of northern european welfare states. that flow has now slowed down a bit, not because of what the eu is doing, but thanks to the member states that have re-established internal border controls. the schengen system should be suspended until the situation is under control, otherwise we risk losing it piece by piece. the asylum rules should be adjusted in such a way that it is not possible to apply for asylum in one member state if you arrive from another.
mr president, i am very concerned about the situation in schengen. the guidelines agreed yesterday with turkey are important and significant, but it is unrealistic to think that turkey would solve the refugee crisis in europe. we must now fix the external borders of europe ourselves. member states must implement decisions already taken in the past on the establishment of hotspots, identification and registration of migrants and a more equal distribution of migrants between member states. dozens of decisions and recommendations have been made, but implementation at member state level is poor. it has created a lack of trust between the member states and has led to the introduction of temporary border controls within the schengen area. eight countries have already taken up the challenge. it is clear that the measures proposed by the commission in its own programme last friday must be implemented in order to secure the future of the schengen area and the free movement of people in europe. it is important for us both politically and economically, but it can only be achieved if the external borders are maintained.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by danuta maria hübner, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making (com(2015)0215 – 2016/2005(aci)) (a8-0039/2016).
madam president, ms hübner in her report has pointed out the need for more concrete provisions on transparency of the legislative procedures, especially the trilogues, and i fully agree. just two weeks ago the committee on legal affairs came exactly to the same conclusions. transparency is a necessary component of legitimacy. the interinstitutional agreement lays a good foundation for a more open and transparent interaction between the eu institutions. but i do not think that this agreement in itself is enough. we should not stop now when we are only at the halfway point. let me explain. a natural follow up for better law-making is better administration. i have had a chance to prepare a draft regulation for an open, efficient and independent eu administration that will also soon be presented here in plenary, next month in fact. and the minister actually knows this project very well because she is a former member of this house. diligent and transparent administrative procedures could reduce the complexity and restore the credibility of the eu administration in the eyes of its citizens, and i will not spare my efforts when this parliament starts taking concrete actions towards better law-making and better administration.
mr president, eu legislation is sometimes compared to riding a bicycle: you have to keep on riding or you will fall. well, that's a wrap. some estimates put the number of legal acts in the eu at 40,000. no one seems to know the exact number. there's plenty of pedestrians too. the commission alone currently employs some 33 000 officials. i welcome the hübner report as a reminder of what was originally agreed on european union. the eu's role is to act only when and to the extent necessary. this is a good guideline, and one that is worth remembering from time to time, whatever one's views on the european union.
mr president, at present more than 8 million eu citizens are working or looking for work in another member state. most of them are highly trained professionals. in addition, there are 1.6 million crossborder workers in europe. they work in a different country than where they live. finally, there are the posted workers who go abroad on short-term work assignments. there's about 1.5 million of them. whether the worker belongs to any of the above categories, the essential point is this: they are entitled to the same pay for the same work. the two-tier labour market, where foreigners earn significantly less than domestic workers, simply does not work and causes a lot of problems. they also distort competition between companies and are at war with the eu's fundamental values.
the question of the blue card. i think you were quite right when you said that there are no simple solutions and that we must protect the external borders. but is this not the idea behind the agreement between turkey and the eu? we are trying to prevent the worst of all, the smuggling business, and thereby achieve some sort of uniformity at the external borders of the european union. here's the point.
in writing. ‒ for this report, i voted against the €3 billion direct aid to turkey for the asylum crisis. this is such a large amount of european taxpayers' money that we must be able to see more closely than we do now that it is going to the intended destination. as i was in the minority in the vote, i hope that the european commission will be watching carefully to see that this money is used carefully and that any savings are put back into the internal problems of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament sent a strong message to the tobacco companies. the anti-smuggling and anti-counterfeiting agreements with companies are not to be continued. the agreements resulted in a reduction in the smuggling of branded cigarettes, but also increased the smuggling of unmarked cigarettes. they want to end cooperation with tobacco companies that are ruining public health. the only ones who benefit from smoking are the big international tobacco companies, which collect their profits at the expense of public health. in finland, the tobacco policy has been tightened since 1976. that was when the first tobacco law was passed, aimed at reducing smoking. finland is moving towards smoke-free society. since the beginning of the 21st century, smoking among adolescents and adults has declined. the new tobacco bill, which was passed in the finnish parliament in february, aims to end the use of tobacco products and other nicotine-containing products. finland's direction is also a good direction for europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the tobacco treaty because we should not cooperate with the tobacco industry. the extension of the agreement would have put the reputation of the european union at risk, as it would have been contrary to the principle of the fctc (cooperation with the tobacco industry), which has been ratified by 180 countries (including finland) and also by the eu commission. the extension of the tobacco agreement could also have jeopardised the adoption and implementation of the fctc's protocol against smuggling.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, first of all, a warm thanks to the rapporteurs and all colleagues for the good cooperation that has been established over a long period of time on this subject. when we talk about veterinary medicine, we are inevitably talking about antibiotics, and it must be remembered that this case also deals with the availability of veterinary products, administrative issues and also issues relating to competition and innovation. the draft report sets out clear conditions for the prescription and sale of antibiotics. the original commission proposal would have removed the possibility of national restrictions on the use of antimicrobials, which would have worsened the situation in my own country, finland, for example. i would like to thank all the parties for the fact that the matter was resolved during the committee procedure and that we are now able to use even stricter regulations in our area. in finland and other nordic countries, antibiotics used to treat animal diseases are only available on veterinary prescription and, thanks to long periods of caution and strict control, finnish meat or milk does not bubble with antibiotic residues. when things have been done wisely in the past, it is worthwhile to see that they can be done in the future. once again, a warm thank you to all involved, and let us remember that healthy, well-cared for animals are the starting point.
mr president, are we here again ordering more invoices from southern europe? i can guarantee that they will start to come if the euro area-wide deposit guarantee scheme is introduced. i understand the concern expressed in the gualtieri report and i will of course sign it myself. trust is the foundation of all banking. citizens do not deposit a single euro in their savings account without the confidence that the money will also remain in the bank. the banking sectors in the north and the south are very different, the risks are different. a single deposit guarantee scheme for the euro area would bring stability and confidence mainly to those member states where the alarm bells should really be ringing. that is why i am opposed to the gualtieri report.
mr president, i said that it was very important to support tunisia and, above all, the development of its democracy, with regard to the trade and cooperation agreement with tunisia. it is very much needed there in north africa, as well as on the whole african continent, we know that. but perhaps so much so that i myself feel that we should also now take care of our own southern europe and its olive production, the quality of olive oil, its origin and so on. in this respect, i myself am somewhat disgusted by the idea that the duty-free quota for olive oil was increased further. the existing agreements would have been sufficient in this respect, but tunisia certainly needs help in this respect and it can be said that the speech by mr caputo in this respect, in quite a number of respects, corresponded to what i myself think of the matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it is a step forward, particularly in terms of antibiotic resistance, animal welfare and reducing red tape. in many countries antibiotics are still used preventively without a confirmed disease, which is not right.
i voted against this banking union proposal, mr president, because i feel that we in europe have managed to take care of our banks quite well, a little too well, and it can be said that european taxpayers and depositors have finally paid for the banks' reckless policy. there are many examples of this in the crises of recent years. i am now afraid that the european union, through this banking union, is also becoming a debt union, a common debt union. personally, i am opposed to this type of development. i am pro-european and i want to see the european union develop as a body of cooperation between independent states, but i am somewhat hostile to structures of this kind, which would indeed bring more solidarity, and i believe that the banking sector must be kept on a sound footing and very far away from the union's common policy.
in writing. ‒ there is much good in the gualtieri report, but it goes too far when it proposes a pan-european deposit guarantee scheme. that's why i can't support it. a few reasons. the banking sectors in the northern and southern parts of europe are very different. the risks vary as well. i understand that the report is concerned with restoring confidence in the banking sector. trust is, of course, the foundation of all banking. citizens do not deposit a single euro in their savings account without the certainty that the money will also remain in the bank. unfortunately, a common deposit guarantee scheme for the euro area would bring stability and confidence mainly to those southern eu member states where the alarm bells should really be ringing.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a regulation laying down the criteria for the selection of the candidate countries and the criteria for the selection of the candidate countries. in addition, there is clear evidence that glyphosate acts as a hormone disruptor. the ads say glyphosate will degrade in the wild in a couple of weeks. however, recent studies have shown that glyphosate and its breakdown products, in particular ampa, can bind to soil and be released into the rest of the environment. the risks are particularly high in cold climates where soil processes are slow. evidence of rapid degradation of glyphosate is based on warm conditions and tests conducted in warm conditions. we need to study how glyphosate breaks down, preserves and affects even colder ecosystems before we blindly allow current practices to continue.
madam president, history has taught us that when we act together we are strong, and when we are divided, we are weak and unable to face challenges, whether these be the refugee crisis, the financial crisis or taxation issues. actually, when it comes to global financial markets, the eu is belittling itself and reducing its powers by being so ineffective, so opaque and having so many intrigues between the member states and competences – not only between the member states but also between the different divisions in the commission and between the commission and the member states – not to mention the opaqueness, which sylvie goulard has already mentioned, about openness to civil society and parliament about what is actually going on in international fora. the latest big signal has been not only taxation but, after the financial crisis, the need to change the system. what we need is democratic scrutiny and the possibility for parliament to give pre—guidance and afterwards scrutiny on these issues.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the agenda will then be followed by a minute's speaking time on a matter of political importance, in accordance with rule 163.
the committee on transport and tourism has adopted an opinion. mr president, we need concrete and credible proposals to solve the long-running crisis, a crisis which is in many ways inhuman and unsustainable from a human point of view. the committee on transport is concerned about the humanitarian aspects of the crisis, but also about the impact on shipping in the mediterranean, the safety of ships and their crews and maritime safety in general. the concern is that accidents are being seen in the mediterranean, which could lead to further loss of life and also environmental damage. the un convention on the law of the sea requires masters of ships to provide assistance whenever persons in danger of drowning are found at sea, and to participate in search and rescue operations at all times. the resources of the authorities have indeed been too weak in the mediterranean, and our trading partners throughout the world have had to shoulder the disproportionate burden of rescue work. the funding for temporary rescue operations in the mediterranean should be increased to ensure the safety and fundamental rights of refugees on their way to europe and of those on board ships working in the mediterranean. i thank the rapporteurs for taking the view of the committee on transport into account and i hope that we will be able to find solutions that can be solved by people.
the question of the blue card. there are certainly many problems with regard to the integration of immigrants, but could you also consider for a moment a longer-term perspective such as this, for example the fact that the population of europe will be reduced by 100 million people by 2050? wouldn't it be a positive thing to think that we need these immigrants?
mr president, the shortcoming of the solutions proposed by both the commission and parliament is that they focus on the question of how we could make irregular immigration more regular. this is what we mean when we talk about creating more legal pathways into europe. this approach does not address the core problem, which is that there are more people coming than europe can absorb. the more we take in, the more will try to come. for a very long time, europe has failed miserably to integrate third—world immigrants, as shown, for example, by the no-go areas in european cities, religious radicalism, and the horrible crime and unemployment rates. as the number of immigrants grows dramatically, this failure is likely to become catastrophic – both economically and socially.
commissioner, our own european food producers and farmers are on the verge of bankruptcy and in a difficult social situation. the decisions that are needed now are of a large scale: more money from the framework to deal with the agricultural crisis and significantly more flexibility in agricultural policy practices. the european union's financial framework must also be able to respond flexibly to acute crises in agriculture. six years is far too long to expect or predict in such a sensitive area. we all know that money is tight, we have to prioritise things, but just recently, three billion euros were found to deal with the refugee crisis in turkey, to outsource it. perhaps the same source can also provide the euro needed for this vital task. how do you flex? we need to raise the state's crisis aid ceiling. 15,000 euros per farm is not enough. secondly, payment of agricultural subsidies must be made early and flexible, and thirdly, it must be possible to adjust national agricultural programmes several times a year. we expect the commission to act on this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. it is important to harmonise the existing fragmented breeding legislation for different animal species and thus clarify and harmonise the provisions and the implementation of the provisions throughout the eu. the european parliament reached a good outcome with the council, which has a positive impact on the competitiveness of eu breeding animals and their germ cells.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted today on a resolution on migration, which calls for the creation of a centralised asylum system for the eu. i voted against the resolution because i do not think that the model presented on paper is acceptable. the decisionmaking process must remain within the member states. coordination between member states must be continued and deepened. the refugees will be assisted in refugee camps outside the eu, where, together with unhcr experts, decisions will be made on who will be granted asylum. asylum seekers are accepted within the framework of national refugee quotas. all member states are required to open the quota. persons granted asylum in one member state should have the right to move from one member state to another.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the deletion of the nutrition profiles (paragraph 47). i think it is good for consumers to know what the nutritional composition of food is. in addition to the eu, the world health organisation is doing a good job of developing informative and clear profiles. this work must be continued. restaurant profiles are one way to tell people about healthy food. however, education alone is not enough to persuade consumers to make a healthy choice. our choices about food and eating are often unconscious and dictated by compulsion. it's easy to advocate a healthy diet if you can afford it. healthy food and diet should be available to everyone.
in writing. ‒ in the law, quality is the key, not quantity. unfortunately, this basic truth is sometimes forgotten in brussels. more regulation on top of regulation, more bureaucracy, more unnecessary and difficult-to-understand laws. this is what the union does. sometimes it's good to admit your mistakes and take a step back. for the eu, it is a step forward. the refit programme is a key part of the commission's strategy for better regulation and i therefore support it. less, clearer and better, these are the criticisms that will help us to continue the legislative work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as a whole, although against paragraph 47 on the deletion of nutrition profiles, as the deletion of nutrition profiles would be inconsistent, given that the ultimate objective of profiles is to prevent consumers from being misled by claims. evaluation and review of profiles is welcome. in general, the refit programme is an important step towards less, better and lighter regulation.
in writing. ‒ the the report on learning eu affairs in school, which was voted on today, dealt with the issue of increasing eu skills through education. in finland, as in many other eu countries, eu matters are already taught in schools, for example in history and social studies. but i think the most important thing is to acquire a broad culture and to learn to collect information on your own, which will give you the best opportunities to look at the eu too. furthermore, according to article 6 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), training is a matter for the member states. for these reasons, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report as a whole because mobility in vocational education and training is essential in improving language skills, personal development and employability. it is therefore important to increase the mobility in the field of vet. concerning amendment 1, i voted against it for two reasons. firstly, it does not concern the core content of the report. secondly, the national agencies have the obligation to translate the programme guide in their eu official language(s) and have the opportunity in choosing to translate it in the co-official language of the territory of the member state.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution on the eu's role in international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies will promote the federalist integration of the european union and further strengthen the power of the european monetary union. the power of citizens and member states is diminishing and the power of supranational bodies is increasing. i cannot support the dangerous development of the european monetary union as it is today. that is why i voted against the motion.
mr president, swissleaks, luxleaks and now the panama papers. how many more leaks do we need to stop tax evasion? i can answer that, no. there is already enough information and the will to do so, across party and state lines. it's time to act. what do you do? what is clear is that global problems require global solutions. the eu alone cannot prevent tax evasion. this is why we need global, comprehensive transparency, as the german chancellor of the exchequer, mr schäuble, has recently put it. we must remember that if we fail to prevent tax evasion, the consequences will not be only economic. the knowledge that the rich and privileged play by different rules from others undermines the moral foundation of societies. my line is clear: tax information must be made public, it must be exchanged and tax havens must be involved in this activity in one way or another - for good or for ill.
mr president, the security environment in europe has become increasingly unstable. internal and external security are intertwined. cyber threats, hybrid warfare, the rise of extremism, radicalisation, terrorism, the migration crisis - all these mean that the european union must work ever more closely together to ensure security and improve the flow of information. at the same time, however, the traditional military threat has not disappeared from europe's borders. this is demonstrated by russia's aggressive actions in ukraine. for europe, nato is still the basic solution for security and military policy, and the european union should not go along with nato to build a competing organisation. but it is right that the countries of the european union should intensify their own cooperation as part of the european pillar of nato, and it is quite right and justified that europe itself should also take on more responsibility for europe's security and military policy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, the only way to prevent a new outbreak of war around the line of contact and de-escalate the situation is to stop the military build-up and the relevant arms race. the best way to achieve this is to deploy a robust un peacekeeping mission around the line of contact with demilitarisation of the area and the withdrawal of all heavy armaments to 15 to 30 kilometres away. the parties in the framework of the osce minsk group should develop and agree to an incident prevention and investigation mechanism to address all violations that may occur. nagorno-karabakh differs from the other frozen conflicts in one point: both parties agree that most of the conflict area belonged to azerbaijan, and i am talking about the seven provinces surrounding nagorno-karabakh. armenia, therefore, should give back to azerbaijan most of the occupied provinces within a reasonable fixed time period, and at the same time, the osce minsk group presidency should relaunch the negotiations on the final status of nagorno-karabakh. instead of exchanging accusations against each other about possible war crimes committed in nagorno-karabakh, armenia and azerbaijan should both sign and ratify the rome statute on the international criminal court. armenia has signed but not ratified; azerbaijan has neither signed nor ratified. finally, the eu should apply the same approach to all the conflicts in the eastern partnership countries, avoiding double standards.
mr president, when barack obama and hillary clinton started their term in the leadership of united states foreign policy, they launched a doctrine of three ‘d’s: development was lifted to an equal footing with diplomacy and defence. we have to do the same in the external policies of the european union. development must be understood in the widest possible sense. we have to fight against poverty and promote ecologically, economically and socially sustainable development all over the world. in the spirit of real policy coherence, we also have to promote this cause in our internal development. in development policy we have to act in close cooperation with the united states, since in this field our basic values, goals and interests are very close to each other. this is also how we can most effectively tackle the root causes of our recent security and migration challenges.
mr president, mr high representative, the security of the citizens and countries of europe begins far outside europe, but as you said, mr high representative, the great threats of today also come from within europe, in the form of nationalism and the rise of extremist groups. the european union has very good policy instruments, but unfortunately the problem is a lack of political will. solidarity between the member states is weak and more coherence is needed. what i would like to see in this excellent global strategy is a sharp focus on arms control and on the consolidation of common positions on what we ourselves have decided on arms and arms exports and their prohibition. it's really important to keep these. the key words of the global strategy are credibility and integrity, and they are central to europe's future.
the question of the blue card. i do not understand what the dutch referendum, russia and poland have to do with this issue when we are talking about a very serious issue, namely how to stop the flow of migrants and asylum seekers and how to provide people with fair conditions. do you not have the heart to concentrate on this matter, which i believe is now on the minds of all european citizens?
the question of the blue card. the greens have strongly criticised the eu-turkey agreement. it's not perfect, but i haven't heard from you about an alternative model. what should the eu do? i hope you will come up with a three-point list of what the eu and the eu member states must do to make things go smoothly and fairly.
madam president, it says in the council conclusions that (i quote): ‘several elements of our common european response to the migrant crisis are in place today and are yielding results’. this is a very optimistic statement, as our common measures, such as the relocation scheme, do not work at all. it is rather the unilateral decisions taken by individual member states that have reduced the flow of migrants, or at least directed it elsewhere. i refer in particular to the re-establishment of internal border controls and the reduction of unhealthy pull factors at national level. i especially welcome the idea of declaring asylum applications from persons arriving from turkey inadmissible. and i wonder very much why this is not already the case at the internal borders inside the european union.
in writing. - i voted to keep glyphosate. i would like to see it restricted to professionals and to a more limited extent. i think it would be unreasonable to ban glyphosate from agriculture if there are no better alternatives. seven years of extension is a good compromise. the harmful effects must be studied in depth and substitute more environmentally friendly substances developed as quickly as possible. i am also prepared to reconsider the use of glyphosate if new scientific evidence emerges of its adverse effects. i would also point out that in finland, for example, the use of glyphosate for drying bread grains is already banned.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution, in favour of continuing the use of glyphosate as proposed by the commission, because according to efsa, glyphosate is still safe to use and i trust this authority. it is also clear that efsa's investigations cannot be fully public, as it also receives market sensitive information directly from companies. instead, all scientific research should be transparent. i would also point out that glyphosate is used in the eu's import crops and therefore a ban on it would put the eu in a special position on the world market. on the other hand, no impact assessment of the rapid transition to alternative substances has been carried out from the point of view of food safety and health effects. the use of glyphosate allows for direct drying, which prevents climate change and also reduces production costs, given that farmers are already in a difficult situation. on the other hand, the use of glyphosate in non-professional activities should be investigated and critically examined.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because the world health organisation has declared the spread of zika virus to be an international public health threat, which makes it important to study the effects of zika virus effectively and to seek to prevent the spread of the virus to ever wider areas.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with the rules of procedure. this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 14 april 2016. written declarations (article 162 of the staff regulations)
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, my friend indrek tarand. the process around the estimates for the parliamentary budget for 2017 has been, to put it mildly, a very interesting one. has it been transparent or should it be transparent? we tend to believe that politics in general and the use of monetary resources in particular has to be transparent. that is at least what we usually say back home. the truth of the matter is that parliament’s budget is opaque to a degree that is not actually acceptable. there are a lot of structural problems: no differentiation between investments and current expenditure, no detailed information about how extraordinary expenditure is used in reality and no control on how different budget lines are used outside the original intention of the budget. in a way this resembles something that was published in 1494. sebastian brandt was born in strasbourg around 1457. in 1494 he published the book das narrenschiff, the ship of fools, where an identifiable crew of persons left for narragonia. we immensely dislike being treated as the fools on the narrenschiff, where you get piecemeal information on a process which is very important. we have decided to vote against this file in tomorrow’s vote. we will not be part of a crew on board a ship that does not know how a ship should be navigated in dangerous waters. we have good reasons for this approach. we see a growing distrust concerning the eu, and we would like to remedy this mistrust. we will ask for more transparency and we will do it in the months approaching the final vote on the budget in october.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, who are we talking about when we talk about poor households? the share of the poor in the union has increased by millions to over 120 million. fortunately, the commission is committed to the three a's of a social europe, and now we must create a real social pillar. we want the commission and the member states to organise a summit on poverty at the highest possible level to address social exclusion and the opportunity to live in dignity. we want to set up a poverty monitoring centre, as the economic and social committee has done, so that we can also take action. basic income and sustainable social policies would safeguard the dignity of life. more and more families are having to count their expenses every month, giving up either food, medicine or heat, and more than 10% of eu citizens have difficulty heating their homes. we therefore support the idea of not tackling energy poverty, and the report also calls for a ban on the switching off of heating in winter. households can improve energy efficiency, but the poor cannot afford it. we must also look for ways of doing this in europe, and we must also look for funding outside the european social fund. the resolution was passed with a clear majority in committee. i also hope that this house will support the commission's definition of energy poverty and its search for ways of addressing it.
blue-card question.– i am very happy that ms harkin also took up the energy poverty issue, as it is a real fact that nowadays more than 10% of european homes have a leaking roof or bad condition walls and inside humidity. the shocking news from the uk is that research shows that one person dies every seven minutes during cold snaps in winter. so energy poverty is a fact. are you ready to support it being defined, by the commission, in such a way that we have a common understanding of what it means?
in writing. heating costs are not the main thing on the mind of the well-to-do citizen. in a poor household, things are different. some time ago, caruna, the largest electricity transmission company in finland, announced that it would raise prices by almost a third. it's a very large raise for a single parent who's unemployed or struggling with financial aid. it's paid for by pinching something else. maybe the food? maybe the clothes? there are many good ideas in the meszerics report we have before us. but it contains few solutions to eradicate poverty in the long term. government intervention in the heating supplier-customer relationship or eu funds to support a decline in household spending are not long-term solutions to poverty. a more holistic view is needed on how to tackle the root causes of poverty, such as poorly functioning labour markets and weak demand.
mr president, it is very clear that there is a huge financing gap for development. so, in addition to official development assistance, the private sector must be mobilised for development and solving global challenges. i think that, at best, an environment which is conducive to the private sector and business is one where good governance, accountability and transparency rules and which is predictable for all. however, i believe that, when enterprises enter into the field of development, they have to be practising due diligence, so that they really understand the conditions on the ground; that what they are doing has to be genuinely in favour of alleviating poverty, addressing climate change and creating local livelihoods, in a sustainable way, and also respecting the rights of indigenous peoples and women, etc. i believe that, if we come to this kind of communication between the private sector and other development actors, we can really achieve something.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, the recent murder of berta cáceres, and its possible links to the agua zarca dam project, highlight the need not only for better protection of human rights defenders but also for regulation for corporate responsibility for human rights, including the right of grievances when rights are violated. the project has been implemented without thorough consultation with the area’s indigenous lenca population. a finnish development finance company, finnfund, is one of agua zarca’s funders. finnfund claims to have carried out a due diligence process, but the question remains: why was the project considered to need funding from finnish development cooperation funds? it is good that finnfund, along with several other funders, has now decided to freeze agua zarca’s funding for the time being. possible continuation of the project should be treated with caution. indeed, more needs to be done to ensure that business in developing countries is carried on in a responsible way that respects human rights.
in writing. parliament voted on this proposal for a directive on the day when only a few weeks have passed since the terrorist attack on our home ground, which literally took the lives of several dozen people. the march attacks took place at the airport and the metro, which were chosen as targets probably because of the large crowds they gathered. the aftermath of the attack on the destroyed brussels airport is extensive, and to ensure safety, all passengers are now treated as suspects. the effects on people's daily life and mobility are long-lasting. there are no resources to replace the effective and preventive exchange and analysis of information between authorities, let alone the impact on everyday life and 'free movement' in europe if every pedestrian is treated as a criminal. in this situation, i think information is our best weapon against terrorism. the collection and analysis of data will help to develop our security operations in a risk-based direction. unfortunately, the proposal now before the house does not sufficiently respect the fundamental rights of individuals and the protection of privacy. the proposal for a directive contains a number of overstated details. the best experts in europe consider the show to be a direct violation of fundamental rights, even illegal. in this proposal we would have needed less but better. that is why i voted against the proposal for a directive.
madam president, it is very important that the european investment bank, as the bank of the union, contributes to social and economic cohesion. however, we must remember that the eib is a financial institution. it is a bank. it needs to take into account the viability and feasibility of investments. it cannot act as a money allocation body. let there be no misunderstanding about this. when the rapporteur speaks about the concentration of allocation of eib-signed projects and suggests that ‘the bank should implement a more balanced lending policy towards member states’, he always speaks from a certain political perspective, as well as a defined member state perspective, as do some other members of this chamber. i hope – i do not know but i hope – that everyone in this room can agree that the eib needs to put great emphasis on the effectiveness and efficiency of investments, as well as on accountability. eib investment decisions should not be made on the basis of national financing needs, but on a careful assessment of predicted viability, effectiveness and efficiency of budgets.
madam president, as the tasks of the european union have expanded, parliament’s annual scrutiny of the commission and other institutions and bodies in their task of implementing eu budget appropriations has taken on growing importance for the union’s taxpayers. but having said this general remark, why actually is the discharge so important? it is so important because the european parliament is the only european institution that is directly elected by citizens, and therefore we have a crucial role in supervising the use of the taxpayers’ money. our role is to enhance the transparency of financial management and improve democratic accountability to eu taxpayers. our role is to make sure that our common rules are obeyed. we need to further improve accountability by putting more focus on performance and results, but at the same time by being able to admit and correct things if something went wrong. but most importantly, parliament’s role in the procedure must be strengthened. discharge is often overlooked, and the only reason for that is, in my mind, that it is not given the institutional role and importance that it deserves. as long as the discharge is not binding, we are undermining not only this house but, more importantly, the union itself.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ferrara, for his excellent work. transparency is important when we are dealing with joint decisions and joint resources. but that alone is not enough. public information must also be easily accessible. the citizen, the journalist or, say, the representative of an ngo seeking information on the eu does not benefit from transparency if the documents are buried behind the backs of the search engines. all the eu institutions certainly have room for improvement in this area. fortunately, this concern has also been taken into account in the ferrara report, which calls for better interfaces for finding documents. of course, there are limits to openness. when international agreements such as the ttip are being negotiated, not all information can be public at all times. it would put the european union at a disadvantage in the negotiations. but these are exceptional cases. openness is the starting point. it is one of the most important means of increasing citizens' confidence in the eu, and as everyone knows, we certainly need this confidence.
in writing. the digitalisation of work and the economy is one of the major social changes of the 21st century. new technology is not just about revolutionizing the way we work. the internet is also changing people's social lives and leisure activities. this is why it is important to try to provide all citizens with equal opportunities to participate in the digital society. equality between men and women must also be upheld online. it is very important that young women are encouraged to apply for a higher number of jobs in the mathematical and natural sciences. we need more women to design software, interfaces and web content.
the first item on the agenda is the council and commission statements on the legal aspects, democratic control and implementation of the eu-turkey agreement.
in writing. the eu-turkey agreement to manage the refugee crisis and stop human trafficking is important. we need to work with turkey. however, cooperation with turkey is only one of many measures to resolve the refugee crisis. we cannot be forced to accept that turkey is the eu's refugee problem. the eu's inadequate external border control and registration of asylum seekers can only be remedied by the eu member states themselves. turkey, along with europe, has also been hit hard by the influx of refugees. more than 2.5 million syrian refugees have already arrived in turkey as a result of the war. turkey currently has the highest proportion of refugees per capita in the world. the majority of refugees in turkey live outside the refugee camps and the humanitarian situation is very worrying. the reports by amnesty international on the ill-treatment and return of asylum seekers to syria must be taken seriously. international agreements must be respected even in times of crisis. as part of its response to the refugee crisis, the eu has pledged €6 billion in financial support to turkey and to accelerate visa-free travel and eu membership negotiations. eu financial support for the region is essential. on the other hand, linking the visa-free and eu membership negotiations to the refugee convention is not correct. these questions are separate and must be assessed on their own merits, in accordance with the criteria laid down for them. the exemption from the visa requirement is granted only if the 72 conditions for it are genuinely met.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the technical part of the railway package is important. in the technical part, we agreed on important measures to improve the interoperability and safety of the rail system. the specific features of finland, whose railway system is in fact closer to russia than to europe because of our history, were also well taken into account. i thank all the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, as well as the commission and the council, for the very constructive cooperation. there is one more thing i want to say. i'm concerned about the enforcement of legislation that we've agreed on together. we have just received the negotiating mandate for the fourth railway package, and at the same time the first railway package is still awaiting national implementation in many member states. the implementation and enforcement of legislation is one of the major problems of the single european transport area. this applies to both the railway and road transport sectors, particularly in terms of working conditions and the development and monitoring of safety. i hope that the commission will take stronger action in the area of control and that in future the jointly agreed measures will be better applied.
the rapporteur. mr president, there was so much noise in the chamber that i could not hear the speaker. however, i would like to thank the customs authorities for my brief speech, because this too is a question of the eu-croatia customs agreement. the customs authorities do a very valuable job of preventing fraud and misuse of various kinds. we therefore hope that croatia will be able to reach this agreement quickly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the continuation of the lux film prize (all amendments on paragraphs 69 and 70). the lux film prize contributes to european integration and reinforces european values by airing films which show different views on political and social issues of the moment. this prize supports cultural diversity and common values, such as freedom of speech, in the eu. it was not long ago that parliament and its committee on culture and education created this prize. in my opinion, we should maintain this tradition which has been held since 2007.
in writing. ‒ i would like to thank the ombudsman and his office for their good and efficient work. the ombudsman does important work as a promoter of good governance in the european union. the resolution criticises the fact that the ombudsman's staff have made official visits to brussels and strasbourg. the seat of the ombudsman shall be linked to that of parliament. as long as the two-seat system is in place, i do not think that this criticism of the ombudsman is going to be effective. i think the whole european parliament should move to one place of sitting, in brussels. i think that the ombudsman has done his job quite well and with a relatively small amount of resources compared to, for example, the resources available to many political groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on women in domestic and care work in the eu because i believe that their work is valuable and equal treatment is important. i myself was a stay-at-home dad when my wife was working, and in my experience families should be able to decide for themselves how to divide the work. in addition, recognition of the role of the household as a job is essential to eradicate the shadow economy.
in writing. ‒ making better use of digitalisation is important and the opportunities for those working from home in particular will improve as we make wider use of infrastructure.
mr president, europe's heavy dependence on russian energy is a problem for europe. the risks have increased particularly since putin's russia has made energy a weapon of foreign policy and part of its power policy. we know that more than a third of europe's energy comes from russia, and that the greatest dependence is on natural gas, which accounts for about 40%. all the objectives now being set to promote the energy union - increasing self-sufficiency, improving markets, diversifying energy sources and better networking european countries - are all important and worthwhile. but nord stream 2 is not compatible with these objectives. it is contrary to the objectives of the energy union. there have been over 20 speeches on this subject, from all the political groups, and no one has said that this is a good and worthwhile project. nord stream 2 does not deserve the support of the european union.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants and retail by alain cadec on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-000052/2016 –b8—0365/2016) (2016/2532(rsp)).
mr president, the status of china as a market economy is a big issue. we know the history of this. the promise made 15 years ago with china's accession to the wto now obliges us to reflect on this issue. it's about trading by the book. common rules are needed, and the wto has tried to maintain them. but it is also about those rules and values, the eu is a community of values. we also have to take care of this part. when we think about china and the market economy status criteria, china currently meets one of these five criteria. of course, the big question is how they can meet the rest of these criteria. so china is not a market economy, that's clear. the question is also how we can act together against chinese dumping. our steel industry has suffered in europe. however, it should be recalled that the current level of the anti-dumping duties on chinese imports into the eu is below 2%. what is needed now is a clear impact assessment of the commission's approach - which is what we expect - and on the basis of that we can take this decision. i personally believe that at present there are no prerequisites for granting market economy status, as the facts speak against it.
in writing. not all industries are beeping bit streams. in my home country, finland, the metal processing industry has been a major employer and export sector. unfortunately, numerous steel companies throughout europe have had to lay off their employees. the chinese have taken the orders and the jobs. beijing has now interpreted the wto agreement to grant it market economy status automatically after 15 years. this is an emergency reading. it is clear that china is not a market economy. the laws of supply and demand don't govern the economy of a country. one party system. the sensor. the political courts. prisoners of conscience. an unknown number of death sentences. these human rights violations should be the first thing the chinese people do to eradicate them from their system.
the question of the blue card. the abovementioned representative highlighted the unfortunate situation in cyprus, where youth unemployment has increased, while in many other european countries it is slowly decreasing. i would like to ask the honourable member whether you have tried to do everything possible, for example, to ensure that the youth guarantee also helps to reduce youth unemployment in cyprus. there is indeed a risk that the appropriations for the youth guarantee may not even be used. wouldn't you make this a national project?
in writing. ‒ cooperation between the european union and south korea on the global civil satellite navigation system gnss is beneficial to both parties. this is particularly necessary now, as location services have become increasingly accessible to consumers in recent years, thanks to smartphones. gnss cooperation shall contribute to the global coverage of digital services and products. the european parliament must actively support measures that support innovation cooperation and enable european industry to enter the korean market in the rapidly growing field of location applications.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it deals with the introduction of integrated regional investment and local self-development projects in the member states' 'investing for growth and jobs' programmes in a comprehensive and worthy manner. in particular, the challenges of introducing them have been well presented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it is important to coordinate cohesion funds better and to improve living conditions in mountain areas. however, i would like to make it clear that any funding for mountain areas must be based on existing national fund shares, since not all member states, such as finland, have mountain areas.
madam president, i think we should take a slightly broader view of these problems. if you look back in history you can see that in the 1950s and 1960s, the general trend in europe was that everybody was going 5% to 6% into the future, coming close to the bigger picture. that changed in the mid-1970s and even more so after the enlargement in the 1990s. what we need now is a new cohesion policy. but in order to have a new cohesion policy, we need a budget which is appropriate to those challenges. it is not much use to speak in this chamber about who got what wrong; there is not a single politician in this house or in any other parliament who can say that he did everything right. almost every politician has something on his back, so we should stop blaming each other; we should work for a new budget and try to fix the problems of those countries in europe that are really in dangerous waters.
mr president, greece is greece and that is not going to change. my own party, the finns, already in 2010 opposed the granting of aid packages to greece, or rather to the big french and german banks, which received aid through greece, as a recent study confirms. however, the majority makes decisions in a democratic system, and we fundamentalists remained in the minority in the finnish parliament in 2010. common rules and agreements are made to ensure that they are respected by all. now we are told that some reforms are being pushed hard in greece, and some are not being pushed at all. you should go and check the right things to do, since you can't trust a word. greece must comply with its adjustment programme before any extension of the loan period or revision of interest rates can even be discussed. or better yet, if greece were to leave the euro and solve its problems and also improve the situation of its poor citizens.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, the world humanitarian summit – the first ever – could be an opportunity to reaffirm the centrality of international humanitarian law and it could improve ways of strengthening compliance with it. but look at what is happening. there have been concerns about the summit’s level of ambition, and i really hope that the european union will do everything to ensure that the level will not be lowered. it is a good idea to have all stakeholders around the table, but certainly it is states which have to commit themselves in a binding way to improving the situation. médecins sans frontières gives cause for alarm in that it has informed us, with disappointment, that it is pulling out of the summit because the summit is neglecting to reinforce the obligations of states to uphold and implement the humanitarian and refugee laws to which they have signed up. seventy-five of the hospitals that msf manages and supports have been attacked in the past year. this is a scandal. the rising number of attacks on schools and hospitals is a horrifying example of growing indifference to international humanitarian law. the deliberate targeting of civilians and civilian infrastructure amounts to a war crime. reinforcing the role of independent and impartial humanitarian aid and the need to improve emergency response both have to be addressed properly at the world humanitarian summit. improving the situation of women, girls and other vulnerable groups during conflicts should be at the core of these talks.
for the alde group mr president, the sustainable development goals adopted in new york last september set out where humanity should be in the next 15 years: eradicating extreme poverty and hunger and creating economically, socially and environmentally sustainable development throughout the world. in order to achieve sdg 17 by 2030, it is essential to have a plan for how to implement the sdgs in practice and monitor their progress. the performance shall be measured by appropriate metrics. the eu must show leadership in achieving sustainable development. it has a major role to play in this as the world's largest trading power, the largest donor of development aid and the leading force in environmental policy. the 2030 agenda aims to achieve a comprehensive approach to the promotion of sustainable development. in the eu, it must be implemented in both internal and external policies. action must be consistent at both national and union level. the fact that both vice-president timmermans and high representative mogherini are involved in this debate shows that the commission has understood the global and universal nature of the sdgs. we in this parliament will be closely monitoring the commission's work on the implementation of the action programme for sustainable development. parliament is prepared to give its full support to this work.
i have received two motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 may 2016. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on eu assistance to lebanon and jordan to face the effects of the syrian crisis (2016/2698(rsp)).
in writing. ‒ i voted against the amendments because cooperation in law enforcement is important and must be directed specifically at the security challenges at eu level. the new mandate for europol will ensure that terrorism and serious transnational crime are tackled at the european level, which is the most appropriate level for tackling serious crime. in addition, europol will be equipped in the near future with a concrete european investigation capacity.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy will help to generate more jobs and economic growth in eu regions. almost one third of the total eu budget is earmarked for cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. the eu needs investment now. it is important for the realisation of investments that the implementation of cohesion policy be accelerated, which is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
mr president, i think we focus too much on how to manage and distribute the people who are coming, while the question we should be asking is how many people we can afford to take in socially or economically. what we should understand clearly is that there is now, and in the future, an endless number of people who want to come to europe. relocation has not worked and will not work and, even if it did work, it would only encourage more people to come. many member states have re—established border controls and that has significantly reduced secondary movement and asylum shopping. in the long run, it will likely also reduce the number of people crossing the mediterranean because those people are not interested in staying in greece or italy. they all want to go to germany, sweden and some other countries. as for the external borders, i think we should look closely at what australia has been doing successfully for the past few years. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, given the miserable integration rate that we have seen, even with much smaller numbers of humanitarian immigrants in europe, i would say that we cannot afford even these kind of numbers. most humanitarian immigrants concentrate in those member states which have the most generous social security system; that is a fact. we should not be naive about the people who are now crossing the mediterranean. the majority of them are economic migrants; they are not refugees from syria.
the question of the blue card. i can of course share many of your doubts, but i am sure you have not read these commission papers, because they mention, for example, the reform of the eurodac system. the commission proposes that the search for possible isis members among asylum seekers be made more effective than it has been so far, by means of databases and fingerprinting. read the commission proposal.
in writing. the ongoing crisis has shown that the eu needs a single asylum policy. but there is still a long way to go, because the most acute problem is still the reluctance of the member states to implement the decisions already taken. the refugee crisis can only be solved together and requires the commitment of all 28 member states. i support the commission's proposal for an automatically activated mechanism to distribute immigrants more evenly among the member states in a situation where an individual member state is overburdened. greece and italy in particular have been under undue pressure for a long time. this distribution must be fair and take account of the actual reception capacity of the member states. all member states must take responsibility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission's proposal for a fine is understandably opposed and not necessarily feasible as such, but some type of sanction is needed if there is no momentum now. i would like to stress once again the importance of external border control. it is of paramount importance for the proper identification and registration of immigrants. the eu's involvement in border controls in frontline countries must be increased.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the country-by-country reporting of tax data is a clear step forward in the fight against tax evasion. the rapporteur, mrs rosati, has been vigorous in taking this important matter forward, and i should like to thank her for that. country-by-country reporting will in future give the authorities better tools to monitor that multinational companies pay their taxes in the member state where the profits are made. the presentation builds on work done in the oecd, which has now been transferred to the eu level. aggressive tax planning is an international problem requiring international solutions. recently, leaks like luxleaks and the panama papers have revealed the brazen tax evasion of large multinational corporations. in public, however, companies want to appear as honorable and socially responsible in every way. however, country-by-country reporting and exchange of tax information between authorities are not sufficient. we also need transparency. the ecr group welcomes public country-by-country reporting, but considers that disclosure of information is not covered by the state aid directive. the ecr majority is also not in favour of lowering the reporting thresholds from 750 million to 40 million. i personally think that the proposal falls short of the mark in terms of transparency and thresholds. it is important that competition between companies is fair and that everyone also pays taxes on the result according to the same rules. it is important that citizens can see the tax footprint of a company. transparency is the best way to create more public pressure on companies and to ensure that the right revenues are declared by country and taxes are paid. the introduction of country-by-country reporting is a clear step forward in the fight against tax evasion. i hope that in the future we can take these steps more quickly and further.
mr president, food is easy to talk about. we all have a close relationship with it. but few people grow their own food these days. the origin labelling is a confidence-building measure. the consumer needs to know where food comes from, and most consumers want to know where it comes from. labelling must be such that consumers are sufficiently informed, food chain operators can implement it in a cost-effective manner and authorities can monitor it with the lowest possible administrative costs. obligatory origin labelling has been opposed on a variety of grounds. in the most extreme visions, food prices rise by as much as 50 percent. there has been talk of trade being affected, of producers being put in difficulty and of protectionism. firstly, in this presentation we start from the fact that the label does not always have to be 'made in spain', it can also be a specific region. who says that it is protectionism when wine bottles have a sign where it was produced? it's a guarantee of quality, it builds trust. i was disappointed when the commissioner said in his opening speech that the commission had no intention of taking action. i hope that parliament's position - which has already been expressed - will be taken up, because european consumers want more information, they must have it. all the commission's own investigations show that cost is not an obstacle.
mr president, children are well when their parents are well. every parent knows this. how, then, can the welfare of the parents be promoted? what could the eu do to promote a good, balanced and peaceful family life? economic security is important. on the whole, the arena report provides good answers. it contains a number of worthy initiatives to support reconciliation between family and working life. for example, the directive on a minimum of two weeks' paternity leave is welcome. flexibility is also important. with the increase in unusual employment relationships, it is important to ensure that parents are able to take parental leave flexibly. the nordic countries are the frontrunners in europe for equality. even now, men take only a fraction of the parental leave to which they are entitled. i think that this should be changed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint report because i think it is important that we carefully assess the economic and social impact of the solution on the internal market of the european union. it is of the utmost importance to find a solution that is compatible with wto rules.
in writing. ‒ i am not a fan of excessive eu regulation, but i am in favour of mandatory, comprehensive and adequate product information for consumers on product labelling. that is why i am in favour of the commission proposing to extend the origin marking to certain products. the consumer has the right to know, for example, the country of origin of the food. the current food information regulation allows the indication of the country of origin in eu or non-eu format. such labelling does not provide sufficient information to the consumer. newspaper reports have revealed misleading origin labels on a chain of grocery stores. in these cases, estonian bread has been sold as finnish. the finnish flag symbol has also been used prominently alongside the price information for foreign fresh meat. the labels are meaningless if the consumer cannot rely on them. i therefore voted in favour of the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of certain foods.
‒ it was very easy to support this report. maternity, paternity and parental leave have long been the subject of debate in the european union. to ensure a better balance between work and family life, we need a balanced family policy. the employment targets set by the europe 2020 strategy will never be achieved unless parents are better cared for! four months of maternity leave is simply too short. it is proven that it is better for the development of the child to be with his parents for longer. it is also worth considering whether equality is achieved in voluntary paternity leave. even in those member states where paternity leave has been possible for a long time, positive results may not be seen. only about 2.7% of those on parental leave are men, and that figure is not much higher even in my own country, where possible parental leave for fathers has existed for a long time. so, should we rethink this model? every child and parent is happier when their relationship is healthy. the adoption of a child must not be a disadvantage in a woman's life, nor is it fair that women are punished for having a child in the workplace. in many cases, pressure may even be put on you to take parental leave. not to mention the lack of future plans at job interviews. the burden of parenting should possibly be shared among older employers. it is time to make europe truly more equal!
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of council directive 2010/18/eu of 8 march 2010 implementing the revised framework agreement on parental leave concluded by businesseuropen, ueapme, ceep and the eaec and repealing directive 96/34/ec. many researchers believe that fathers who take parental leave form a better relationship with their children and are more likely to be active in their children's lives later in life. i myself was once a stay-at-home father, which is why i think it is important that parental leave is guaranteed equally to all parents. however, social security matters fall within the competence of the member states, which is why i abstained in the vote on the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the committee's own-initiative report on the implementation of the parental leave directive is important and encourages men to take more parental leave. finland is better off than the eu average, although improvement is still needed. however, the areas of decision-making between the member states and the eu must be kept separate and this distinction respected. different countries have different social security practices and societies differ in other ways. it is therefore important that each country should be able to decide for itself which practices are most appropriate for it. for these reasons i abstained on several occasions and in the final vote i opposed the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of directive 2011/36/eu of 5 april 2011 on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting victims of trafficking in human beings, as member states should do more to protect victims of trafficking in human beings. victims of trafficking should be treated as victims, not criminals, and given adequate support for recovery and return to normal life. i also voted to delete paragraph 48 because it is contrary to paragraph 51, which states that the regulation of prostitution is a matter for the member states.
the question of the blue card. i listened with great interest and joy to the speaker's speech. you have clearly taken a value-based approach to this question and not merely a technical one, as you have done so far. i would like to ask you whether you have also considered how fair competition, democracy and freedom of the press can be promoted, for example by increasing the transparency of these algorithms. i am personally concerned that it is not being discussed at all.
madam president, today is a black day for the ict and hardware sector in europe, as microsoft announced in finland that it will cut 1 350 jobs. these are the jobs of ict-skilled people, mostly in research and development and manufacturing. i hope the eu will help with the globalisation fund. but this is also a question of european industries getting along with globalisation, and this is a part of the digital strategy we have to bear in mind. we want europeans to have jobs in europe. i say no to a future in which all the manufacturing and all the hardware is produced in asia and all the applications and all the content are provided by the usa. we need those in europe too – so i believe, and i work for the digital single market – as we see that the single market has also been a source for economic growth in europe. it is said that the digital single market could add eur 415 billion to the european union economy, and it is said that the digital single market will bring hundreds of thousands of jobs. i encourage the commission to look at every step it takes in the digital single market, so that it will also create growth and jobs for europeans. so that is why i do not always like the digital single market being the only keyword here, but it is the digital society that creates well-being and jobs for europeans as well. we still eagerly wait for the skills strategy as well as the telecom rules, and the infrastructure to go and make europe deliver. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i do not believe that protection is the right way to deliver. i strongly want to see the digital single market, and these 28 rules are not providing the best we can deliver from the european economy. i do not think that france is better and stronger alone. i do not think that finland is stronger alone because, although finland was the frontrunner in mobile telecoms manufacturing, we did not sell them only to 5.5 million finnish people. we sold them globally. so now we need to take the next steps and then we need to do it together for 500 million consumers.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the commission on today's digital package. it is now taking the right steps to create a european internal market for digital services too. we know that it is still a big problem in europe that at the same time as people, goods and capital move across borders, digital services often still come to a standstill at the borders. it was quite astonishing to read that commission study which had examined ten thousand online transactions and found that more than 60% of these online transactions were land-locked and, in fact, only one third of the online transactions allowed for purchases between the countries of the european union. so it is very important that the commission today made a proposal to remove these unjustified land restrictions. i hope that this will stimulate e-commerce in europe and increase competition. the challenge, of course, is that we are constantly faced with legislation, with technology evolving much faster than legislation, and with consumer habits and expectations changing very rapidly. so it is important that the legislative framework is also flexible enough to encourage europe to innovate, because we know that one of the biggest challenges for europe is precisely how we will compete in the digital economy, for example, with the us or asia. so in that sense the proposals made by the commission today are quite well reasoned and good, and they are taking us in the right direction. (the speaker promised to answer the question on the blue card under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer to the blue card question. as you are probably well aware, there are a number of initiatives under way in europe specifically aimed at accelerating the deployment of high-speed networks throughout europe. it is important that we have the existing infrastructure available, but of course the digital skills of people are also something that must be encouraged, and above all those people who have not had the opportunity to learn these skills must have the opportunity to get help and support, because today digital skills are part of civic skills and it is important to get into society as well.
madam president, seven years ago this parliament gave the commission a legally binding mandate to come up with the endocrine disruptor criteria before 2013. so this deadline passed three years ago but the list is still not ready, and the general court has stated that the commission is currently in breach of eu law. both old and new inter-institutional agreements clearly say that impact assessments are not a substitute for political decisions. they must not lead to undue delays in the law-making process. but still the commission is neglecting its duties and is tinkering with an impact assessment, thus violating both the inter-institutional agreement and the treaties when doing so. could the commission, by the way, confirm if it is true that it was the ttip negotiations, and the us negotiating position, that actually made the drafting of endocrine disruptor criteria so inconvenient? i hope that this is not true, because i would find it unbearable if the commission is ignoring the court decision for the interests of the us industries.
one of the most passionate goals of the european union is to create a new, better, reliable, better-priced, consumer-oriented energy policy. it is driven by climate change, the technological possibilities we have and new ways of using renewable energy. madam griffin has done a great job bringing also the energy poverty into the central question. one thing i am especially happy about is the fact that now we have some ideas on how to really fight energy poverty. that has a role nowadays in europe. i worked in the employment committee on the issue, and the figures i learned are tremendous. there are people dying in europe because of the cold, so then in wintertime you may not cut the electricity if it is an electricity house. i learned it is done in finland, but there are countries in europe who do not do that, and then i also learned that there are still some countries where the customers cannot change from one company to another, and there are also termination fees. we do not have them in the telecom market, so why do we still have them in the market-oriented energy markets in europe? we have to get rid of that. i am very happy that the commissioner is listening here and wait for the proposal on that. one other point is that we also have to make sure that companies pay their taxes. it is normal to have natural monopolies as they operate in areas where customers cannot change their operator. the natural monopolies market pressure does not work, so we have to be very careful they do not practice tax avoidance.
mr president, in many speeches here tonight it has been stated that energy in europe is too expensive and the market is not working. the commissioner has received very strong support from this group for market reform and for the need for greater transparency and competition in europe and for consumers to be able to switch energy suppliers. one of the main reasons why the market is not working in europe at the moment is that we have insufficient energy transmission links, too many energy islands and, on the other hand, various energy subsidies have confused the market. the european union is supporting energy with some eighty-five billion a year, and it has practically led to the situation that no one is investing in energy without some kind of permanent support, and this cannot continue. it is acceptable when building a new technology that it gets some type of investment support, but if energy is based on the need for continuous support, it is not on a sustainable basis. the commissioner has received strong support from this house, in that the european parliament wants to reform the energy market, to bring about competition and transparency. this is clearly a major problem for european consumers and industry. we have wholesale electricity prices 30% higher than in the usa, and there are large differences in consumer prices between member states. it also emerged that in all countries the member states do not provide sufficient support to their most deprived citizens to enable them to cope with the cost of housing. this is primarily the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because it is important that the european parliament responds early to the changes in modern society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it has been dealt with and examined in detail in committee. i would like to emphasise that the cities of salonika and oulu in finland have also benefited from the mobilisation of the global fund in recent years as a result of the global change in the structure of the mobile phone sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it has been dealt with and examined in detail in committee. i would like to emphasise that the cities of salonika and oulu in finland have also benefited from the mobilisation of the global fund in recent years as a result of the global change in the structure of the mobile phone sector.
in writing. ‒ the council of the european union has decided on the distribution of asylum seekers and refugees arriving in the eu among eu member states, which sweden has asked for a temporary suspension of implementation. by suspending the obligations, sweden is conducting its own assessment of the situation in sweden, which received and received more than 160 000 asylum seekers and refugees in 2015. sweden considers itself to be in an emergency situation caused by the sudden influx of third-country nationals into its territory as a result of a sharp change in migration flows. i supported the request by sweden for a temporary suspension of the council decision. i believe that europe has failed to deal with the refugee crisis and that the dublin treaty should be strictly respected.
in writing. ‒ the griffin report outlines a number of good initiatives to facilitate the switchover of energy suppliers. the simplification of billing and the facilitation of comparison are key to the creation of a functioning eu-wide electricity market. information is also important. for example, studies show that the need for heating energy decreases by five percent when the temperature drops by one degree. this kind of information is important to consumers. now that information has been slightly reduced in the otherwise good report by mr griffin, for which i voted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the arena report because it raises important equality issues, such as the weak position of women in retirement. women in finland, as elsewhere in europe, too often receive a meagre pension, barely enough to earn a living. there are several reasons for this. women have often interrupted or stopped working to care for their families. one solution would be to distribute childcare leave more evenly between women and men. however, regardless of how this issue is resolved, the most important thing is to ensure that the provision of care and support to children does not significantly reduce the pension cover of parents who are on leave.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the improvement of women's position in the world, from poverty to equality with men. the report is important, but the arguments in the report are not entirely based on facts. the report is in part strongly pro-women and not so much in favour of equality. the report also includes compulsory paternity leave and changes to pension systems, as well as joint eu action, although these are matters for member states.
in writing. ‒ the report 'poverty: a gender perspective' summarises the challenges facing women's economic status and suggests ways to change this situation towards a more equal status. the issue itself is very important and i have personally worked to promote equality in the past, for example as minister for foreign trade and development and now as vice-chair of the development committee. however, the report is a collection of issues - and it is also worth supporting - which must be decided by the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the report also proposes a compulsory paternity leave which is not applicable in finland. we're supposed to be emphasizing volunteerism. i therefore voted against this report in the final vote, in line with my line, because these matters are largely a matter for the member states themselves to decide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the use of the designation of origin in certain parts of the report, as it is important for consumers to know the origin of products also within the eu.
for the verts/ale group mr president, it is very promising that there are currently fewer new aids cases in africa than people in treatment. it shows that if we invest now in the fight against aids and hiv, we can end this epidemic by 2020. i would like to draw attention to the fact that eastern europe and central asia are very difficult regions in terms of aids. work that is based on human rights and takes into account the need for protection of the most vulnerable should be supported. we need a rational drug policy and we need to ensure that prison conditions are reasonable and that people in sex work are treated with dignity.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the commissioner for his very strong statement and commitment to tackling the problem of hiv and aids both here in europe and globally. it is very important that the eu has a strong, committed and internationally leading role. it is indeed a challenge, but in the midst of it, it is worth remembering that the entire fight against hiv is a good example of how international cooperation can work together to develop drugs for serious diseases, improve prevention, reduce stigma and also extend the life expectancy of those who have been infected. obviously, this is not enough. in order to keep our promises and really stop the spread of aids, i believe we have four aspects that must be addressed in the eu's action. the first is, of course, prevention, which is also mentioned here, and which also includes the sexual rights of women and girls and education. the second powerful issue is related to social justice and the human rights dimension. we need information, education and treatment free of stigma and exclusion, prevention and information. as we know, many times these problems are also linked to social disadvantage, crime or other desperate situations, and i therefore hope that the eu could also contribute to this by strengthening the social dimension and welfare more generally.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would also like to thank mr preda for his excellent report and the good cooperation we have had on it in the committee on development. i think commissioner andriukaitis said something very important when he talked about the interconnectedness of things and how they should be reflected in the ways decisions are planned and taken. i am very happy to hear that the commissioner is saying that, for instance, policy coherence for development could in the future be a part of impact assessments. let me also support the oral amendment by mr goerens, which says that, when in the commission two or more commissioners do not agree on something that has a serious impact – positive or negative – on development, the president of the commission could have a role. i very much agree and we should develop something similar here in parliament. but, at the same time, elsewhere, something quite different is going on. i have become aware of the fact that the commission and the external action service have now agreed that development cooperation money could be used to acquire and purchase weapons in those third countries where the eu is training the military. i think it is outrageous to hear that we would do this at the cost of development financing. before anything like this is undertaken we should definitely have more funds to use, and we should make sure that these armies and military and police forces in developing countries get sufficient training in a human-rights-based approach and a democratic way of working.
madam president, i would like to thank you. when the luxembourg papers were opened to us, we may not have had a real idea of the scale of this problem. but as the panama papers landed on the editorial desk of the süddeutsche zeitung, we gradually began to realize just how big a problem this really was. the best example of investigative journalism is yesterday's international new york times. there's the description of how this works, how this industry works: it's shell companies on shell companies on shell companies, spreading all over the world. for that reason, i do not think that even a specialist such as the current president of the commission really knows how big this lunen hydra really is. the example mentioned in yesterday's new york times describes a case where the man who ordered the aggressive tax planning paid $4.5 million to bring about this system of shell companies. for that reason, i suspect that no one, neither in the commission nor in the european parliament, really has any idea of the scale of the problems we are facing. every time someone mentions tax competition as an excuse to continue this, i suspect they have their hands in the honey pot.
mr president, the leaks of recent years have revealed the enormous number of companies that do not pay taxes in the country where they make their profits. companies empty their profit accounts into countries with low taxation or even tax exemption. even old and reputable businesses have resorted to outright tax evasion, believing that they will not be caught in this shameful practice. the public record and fair and clear tax laws are the best antidote to the problem of tax evasion. tax avoidance companies want a stable society. they do so at the expense of their competitors by paying their own taxes through these competing smes. in many countries, public services have been privatized. i hope that those companies which are engaged in tax evasion will be completely excluded from public tenders. i hope we can find effective rules to combat tax evasion.
in writing. the measures proposed in the proposal would significantly facilitate the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance. the commission has already made a number of proposals which are not only cosmetic but also very effective in making tax evasion more difficult and more difficult. there is always room for improvement, but i am very pleased that parliament is taking a firm stand. the talk of cracking down on tax evasion has been promising, especially since the panama papers leak. we need action now. large multinational companies pay less tax than small and medium-sized enterprises that are conscientious about their business. european competitiveness requires that european companies are at least on a par with the international giants. the losers in tax evasion are honest companies and governments that do their job fairly. that is why every honest and fair country and every business should support measures against tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the additional protocol to the convention on the illicit trade in tobacco products. illicit trade in tobacco products is damaging public health and causing income losses across the eu, as cheap illegal products are sold alongside legal tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ some 1.5 billion people still live without adequate healthcare and education. most of them are women. low living standards are not a problem unique to developing countries. the eu is facing the worst refugee crisis since the second world war. the link between migration and development policies must be strengthened. only in this way can we address the causes of the mass migration, the poverty and the instability it causes. in this work, it is essential to ensure that the different measures to support development are consistent with each other. for example, the impact of the union's agricultural and trade policies on food security in developing countries and on the livelihoods of the most disadvantaged people must be assessed. the important thing is to establish the rule of law and good governance. such developments should also be encouraged in developing countries. in particular, an efficient, fair and transparent tax system should be promoted. without tax revenues, public services are not provided. the report stresses that developing countries have the right to develop their own growth strategies. these states also have an obligation to take care of their own citizens to the best of their ability. developing countries must give priority in their budgets to the creation of functioning health systems. development aid has not always been the best incentive for this reform. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament voted on a report on the eu's 2015 report on policy coherence for development. the report is a key element in development policy and must be supported as a whole. the report included a mention of the need for the eu to take further harmonisation of immigration and asylum policies. i voted against this. i believe that decision-making on immigration and asylum should not be taken beyond the member states.
in writing. ‒ i made a statement on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation on the report voted on today on 'peace-keeping operations' and 'eu cooperation with the un and the african union'. the report stresses the eu's holistic approach to peacekeeping operations and seeks to increase the african union's responsibility for peacekeeping operations in africa. as the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation states, peace operations must be seen as a continuation of conflict prevention, conflict resolution, peacebuilding and post-conflict development. this is a comprehensive approach which should be given greater weight. eu external action in fragile and conflict-affected countries should focus on conflict prevention and capacity building to support security and development, thus addressing the root causes of instability.
‒ in the food market, the trading relationships and bargaining positions between small producers and large retail chains are often disproportionate, which easily leads to practices contrary to good commercial practice. these shortcomings must be addressed in order to guarantee a reasonable income for primary producers and a wide range of products for consumers. the union needs common rules of the game, because voluntary self-regulation by traders has not succeeded in solving these problems. it should be possible to report on good commercial practice anonymously. if a small business owner's entire business depends on one retail chain, he is clearly in a difficult position to start pointing out shortcomings in his own name. unequal bargaining positions are also commonplace in finland, where the retail trade is highly concentrated. in finland, for example, large retail chains can often collect so-called marketing money from suppliers. it is not always clear whether money is used to get marketing or whether it is just a mandatory threshold to guarantee the product's entry onto the shelf. both producers and consumers suffer from such practices. the range of food is shrinking, the price of food is rising, and the income of producers is falling. consumer prices for food increased by as much as 18,7% in finland between 2010 and 2014, compared to an average increase of 9,7% in the eu. in the last year, the european parliament has discussed poverty in its various forms, such as energy poverty, on several occasions. maybe next time we should talk about food poverty? the problems raised in the czesak report are not new. since 2009, parliament has adopted as many as five resolutions on retail problems. it's time to act.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report and the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture. i think that the food chain needs regulation at european union level, because food is traded across borders in the internal market. the food chain also needs fairer rules of the game because the consequences of the agricultural crisis have been disproportionately heavy, especially for producers. the single market ensures predictability and thus equalises the market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because innovation in the agricultural sector, which can provide new opportunities for farmers suffering from the agricultural crisis, must be supported. i supported the idea in the report that economic development and sustainable development can go hand in hand and are not mutually exclusive. supporting innovation is a strong step towards promoting competitiveness and the eu must invest even more in this.
in writing. ‒ according to un estimates, the world's population will increase from seven billion to more than nine billion by 2050. this means that food production must be increased substantially. agricultural production must be doubled in the next 15 years. it is also very important to reduce food waste. according to some estimates, 1.3 billion tons of food are wasted each year. in europe alone, 100 million tonnes of food are thrown away every year. we can't afford this. in the future, systems must be developed whereby edible and unsold food is donated to charity and contaminated food is put back into the food chain through composting. you may also need to change your eating habits. appropriate nutrition information should be shared at home and in schools to encourage healthy and ecological diets from childhood. despite all the education work, we must be prepared for the fact that population growth and rising average incomes will lead to an increase in demand for meat and dairy products. production of these should not be increased by short-term solutions. for example, in meat production, over-medication can lead to antibiotic resistance when the drugs lose their effectiveness. agriculture must not be developed from the point of view of nature or the consumer. it is also necessary to ensure that farmers earn a reasonable living from their work. the eu's agricultural sector is a key pillar of the union's economy, providing security of supply and employment for tens of millions of people on farms and in the food and retail sectors. the huiteman report is important and contains many proposals to be supported, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because improving the efficiency of innovation and economic development in farming is one of the themes that needs to be addressed in eu agricultural policy. innovation will also enable us to link other industries more effectively with agriculture. by bringing together different industries and thinking innovatively, we can increase the competitiveness of agriculture and support farmers during the agricultural crisis by providing new solutions.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the mid-term review of the investment plan (2016/2732(rsp)).
there are already members of parliament who have asked to put blue card questions, but i want to inform you that i will open it up after the group speeches, so if you still want to put a blue card question after that, please ask again.
i will now give the floor to mr bullmann, whose birthday it is today, so congratulations.
the question of the blue card. this plan is not gonna work. how can we say that when we have had very little time and, for example, in italy, as commissioner katainen said, 44 000 smes have already received funding? it's working. what do you think of the idea that this funding could be used to solve, for example, the biggest problem facing europe at the moment: the integration of immigrants, for example by repairing disadvantaged european neighbourhoods or preventing the creation of new disadvantaged neighbourhoods? we think a little too much that this is just motorways or railways, that we also have to invest in improving people's skills.
in writing. mr president, the esif investment fund, which was set up a year ago, has started surprisingly well. in its first year of operation, the fund has mobilised over eur 100 billion in investments, so it is on track. increasing investment in europe is essential to boost growth, competitiveness and employment. european financial instruments are needed, but even more important is the need to create a european environment that encourages businesses to invest. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in the member states. this is particularly true of energy and environmental policy, which has been too short-sighted. it's not gonna encourage you to invest. a more business-friendly approach in europe is also needed in relation to new business models introduced by, for example, mobile services enabled by the internet. the commission's guidance last week on the sharing economy was very welcome. new funding opportunities are still needed for companies whose products and services are still in the research and development phase. europe has a lot of know-how and we should be able to exploit that potential better. many european success stories are still waiting for their inventor. the future of growth lies in smes. they must now be encouraged to grow and to internationalise. the eu's single market of 500 million people is within reach of every business. the ttip agreement with the united states would also benefit smes in particular. this would significantly increase export opportunities and economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because promoting international economic equilibrium should be one of the eu's main objectives. without a balanced global economy, the eu economy will not grow either. in addition, it is of the utmost importance to support democratic development by stabilising tunisia's public finances. the loan will provide temporary support to tunisia, but will partly press for the continuation of the work already undertaken to stabilise the economy in the form of a demand for repayment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as a whole, but i did not vote on the 24 paragraphs of the original text which dealt with asylum for prisoners released from guantanamo. the eu has no power to pressure member states to grant asylum to released prisoners, but member states should be able to make this decision within the limits of their own available resources.
in writing. the situation in venezuela is alarming, with the fall in oil prices leading to a serious crisis in the country. the government has not made the necessary reforms in time and the opposition has been focused on fomenting chaos for years. venezuela must not be used as an instrument of internal european politics and must not be incited to civil war. we must concentrate on doing everything we can to resolve the humanitarian crisis, strengthen the rule of law, reform the economic system and involve all parties in building the future through democratic means.
the explanations of vote have been closed.
for the verts/ale group mr president, i too would like to thank mr delvaux for the important work he has now completed. the mutual recognition of public documents between member states does indeed contribute to the free movement of goods. but, as the rapporteur has said, unfortunately this is only the case for certain documents at the moment. the commission should take advantage of the review clause contained in the regulation. it would be very important to include certificates of disability, for example, in the scope of this regulation, because of course all europeans should be able to exercise their right to free movement in practice, and disabled people have a very special situation. i would like to mention in this context that the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities will in fact enter into force in my home country of finland, at last, tomorrow. and now i would like to see the eu also ensure that eu legislation meets the requirements set for conventions. i would stress that one important category of documents which should be brought quickly under the scope of this regulation is precisely those relating to disability.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the transfer of jurisdiction in civil service disputes is part of an important reform of the court of justice. the function and efficiency of the eu court system is of the utmost importance for the whole eu legislation, and therefore we in parliament have taken decisions which have also drawn a lot of criticism. we did it in spite of that. so far parliament has supported the court reform and has kept its promises to the court and to the council, but member states need to do the same and i refer to what colleagues have already raised. last october the council and parliament made a joint statement saying that at the end of the reform process, in order to achieve equality between women and men, the member states should, to the greatest possible extent, appoint women judges to ensure an equal presence of women and men in the eu court. i am absolutely convinced that every eu member state has talented and brilliant judges, both men and women, and i will make sure, for my part, that this parliament will remind the council of its promise, which seems to be broken, also in the future.
author. – madam president, over the years the complexity of the eu’s administration has increased. new bodies, offices and agencies have been created and the tasks for which the european union is responsible have also grown. this has meant, too, that citizens and businesses increasingly have become directly involved with the union’s administration. this happens, for instance, when they are applying for eu funds, or when they lodge complaints against a decision which is unfavourable to them, etcetera. however, despite the fact that the union has at its service officials who are both competent and dedicated, its public image is unfortunately often that of an incomprehensible and distant bureaucracy. the scattered nature of the rules governing the eu’s administrative activities, and the gaps and uncertainties that this leads to, are certainly not helping to improve this image. we have already heard from mr swoboda that there is a legal basis now for the commission to come up with a proposal on law and administrative procedure, which would be applied to all eu institutions. and it is important to emphasise that the draft regulation which has been produced by the working group would apply only to the administration of the union’s institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, and not to member states’ administration. it would also concern only administrative activities in the strict sense. it excludes legislative procedures and it excludes judicial proceedings, as well as the adoption of delegated acts and implementing acts and other non-legislative acts directly based on the treaties. what is very important is that the commission looks at how, with the help of this draft regulation which has been finalised, we can foster the culture of an open, efficient and independent european administration. finally i would like to say a word of thanks to the european law institute, a group of dedicated academic experts, from the political groups, for the immense amount of work that has gone into this exercise over the years, and notably during the past two years.
author. – mr president, tajikistan is the poorest of the five central asian countries and we have to continue to support social and economic developments in this country; but we also have to remind the country about the obligation on the grounds of the partnership and cooperation agreement that our cooperation must be based on shared values. just yesterday, to my knowledge, the human rights dialogue between tajikistan and the eu was held. the parliament already wanted to send a strong message to this human rights dialogue. we can conclude that the human rights situation has steadily deteriorated. some very repressive laws have been put in place, notably the law on public associations, which poses the risk of serious sanctions on ngos, and the law on the bar and the practice of law, which has been recently adopted and which threatens the independence of the legal profession in the country, and so on. what we also see is that political prisoners are convicted on obviously political grounds, and we have to call for a full release of these people. we also should not accept that the fight against terrorism, which of course is a real issue, is conducted by opposing and repressing the rights of democratic opposition parties. so we have to support the rights of peaceful opposition parties and civil society to continue to act.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. this was supposed to be a simple match. it was anything but a simple question, but i would like to start by saying a special thank you to two people. firstly, to jarosław wałęsa. he has gone to watch football, i think, but he listens to us at the crucial moments, and that is why we have reached a somewhat decent result. the second person i would like to thank in particular was ulrike rodust for her contribution at the very first stage when we tried to implement the new european fisheries policy. she was a central figure and a support and a boost for me during the crucial negotiations. thank you very much. why was that so hard? it was difficult for the same reason that the baltic sea is a difficult inland sea. it is slightly polluted, the average depth is less than in any other large fishing area, we have a low salinity there and we have many states with different interests along the shores of the baltic sea. it was also the first time, and all of us who are somewhat mature know that the first time is always harder than the second time. so there are different interests, there were technical difficulties and the fish have a strange ability not to always follow our instructions or directives. one of the problems we had was that the rapids and the current now go in the same rhythm in parts of the baltic sea. this makes it difficult for the fish to catch something that is important for their nutrition. but we have reached a goal and we hope that this goal will also be valid for the other regional plans. we know that during the trial there were always unseen guests. other fishing interests that made it rather difficult to get to the target, but thank you again.
mr president, although it is true that education is the responsibility and the decision-making power of each member state, it is important that, at european level, objectives are set for the quality and quantity of education and that these objectives are compared and that efforts are made to exchange best practice between the various member states and, above all, to ensure that the free movement of europeans can also take place by means of an active exchange of students and, later on, that students have the opportunity to seek employment elsewhere in europe thanks to their language and cultural knowledge. if we want to build a better europe, then good quality education is without doubt the key to a better future for each person, for themselves and for europe as a whole. especially in these economically difficult times, care must be taken not to compromise the quality of education. one of the best ways of ensuring the quality of education is to have good, qualified teachers. in other words, there is one way to ensure good education: to ensure that we have skilled, competent teachers whose working conditions are taken care of. it's not just about pay, although pay is an important factor. it is important that teachers have good working conditions and also have the opportunity to receive further training and to develop their own skills. we know that it is very important for every child to have an enthusiastic, motivated and competent teacher who can motivate children to move forward and have an impact on the future of tens, hundreds and thousands of children.
mr president, achieving the eu's co2 reduction target requires action by all sectors of energy production and consumption. energy efficiency is one of the best ways to reduce co2 emissions. energy efficiency must be promoted in the building sector, transport, services and in the various production methods, not forgetting energy production. when it comes to renewable energy, it is important to stress that it can also be produced sustainably, on a small scale and locally, thus helping europe on its path to growth. more investment is therefore needed in research and product development of renewable energy alternatives so that smes can also benefit from them. the eu's dependence on fossil fuels produced outside the eu must be reduced by all means and subsidies must be directed towards supporting sustainable energy.
mr president, it has been said that there is a global energy revolution under way, with renewable energies taking over the market. i am pleased that solar energy has started to be invested in and that the solar power capacity has been doubled in my home country of finland in 2015. the companies in the sector have promised significant capacity increases in the coming years as well. some cities have embraced the idea, but businesses, energy companies, farms, and private individuals have also acquired solar power plants. i have been thinking a lot about whether the slow progress towards renewable energy is due to the fact that the traditional energy markets have been dominated by a minority. it is right to ask whether the political decision-makers and the big energy players have been too long and too closely linked to each other. in any case, the energy policy of the future must be designed on the basis of the environment, jobs and consumers.
mr president, commissioner, just a few key points from this renewable energy report. firstly, there is the question of subsidies for renewable energy. they are a real problem for the whole european energy market at the moment. the energy market is in disarray and in fact no one is investing in energy now without getting long-term production subsidies or guaranteed costs. we should get rid of this now. it is justified that research, development and investment in renewable energy can be supported, but if renewable energy is based on the assumption that it will receive continuous support, it is not sustainable. we see that last year in europe renewable energy investment was the lowest in nine years, and investment fell by 20 percent. it shows that we need to have more long-term vision and that investors also know where we are going. the second question concerns the sustainability criteria, which we want to speed up in this case with regard to biomass. it is important that we manage europe's forests sustainably, but we must not add to the bureaucracy of forest owners. it is important that we already take advantage of the certification systems that we currently have.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation funds, as the regions facing severe structural change need to be helped and the belgian application was substantially completed. in finland too, there is a need for these funds, for example in the cities of oulu and salonika.
in writing. ‒ the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund follows the line i have been promoting. i think that the european globalisation adjustment fund should be abolished and merged with the european social fund. however, since this programme is still in operation and has supported the regions of oulu and saloni, for example, in the face of sudden structural changes, i also support this report. the employment situation in hainaut, belgium, is unsustainable due to the mass redundancy of a company operating in the area, belgian caterpillar, and therefore eu support measures are justified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal and against the amendment adopted in committee, as i consider it unnecessary. the commission proposal identifies the member states involved in enhanced cooperation and explicitly emphasises that the regulations apply only to those member states.
in writing. ‒ the report on the follow-up to the strategic framework for european cooperation in education (et 2020) is mainly to be welcomed and it is important to ensure that education systems ensure the integration of people into society. however, i did not vote on some points, because i believe that education policy is a matter for the member states and not a matter for the eu.
in writing. ‒ overall, the report is good and balanced. however, the sections dealing with sustainability criteria for biofuels and bioliquids are problematic for forests. paragraphs 84 and 85 refer rather negatively to the use of forest biomass as a renewable biomass energy source. the cautious approach to forest use at the beginning of paragraph 84 is not a good starting point. in addition, paragraph 85 provides for a margin of interpretation as to whether or not forest biomass is considered sustainable biomass. in europe's forest-rich countries, forest resources are growing despite the energy use of wood raw materials. the practice of forestry is to grow more forests than are cut down. this makes wood a truly renewable resource. despite the fact that the report as a whole was a success, i voted against it because of the references to forests.
in writing. ‒ the renewable energy scoreboard is essentially a balanced overview of the current state of affairs in the eu. however, in the sustainability criteria for biofuels and bioliquids, paragraphs 84, 85 and 88 contain wording which i believe has failed finland, and which, among other things, calls for caution in the use of forest biomass as the eu's main renewable energy source, because: ... it can potentially have adverse effects on the climate and the environment.... these points do not, in my view, contribute to finland's objectives in the bioeconomy. because of the difficulty of the whole, i abstained in the final vote on the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive is to be welcomed, as it focuses not only on improving energy efficiency but also on energy saving. taking account of national specificities and setting ambitious climate targets are also the right actions for the eu. on a couple of points my group deviated from the line, partly because i am not in favour of increasing the additional reporting to the member states. on the whole, these are the reasons why i voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the motion for a resolution on the uk's withdrawal from the eu was a vote to ask the european parliament to reflect on the impact of the uk's referendum on leaving the eu on the eu as a whole. i could not support a resolution whose spirit is to continue the development of the union towards a deeper integration than if nothing had happened. i am in favour of developing the union as a federation of states in which the people and the nation states have the final say. i believe that the union must be developed in this direction rather than in the current line of closer integration.
in writing. recognition of qualifications, training with immediate start, acceleration of access to employment, fair working conditions, support for smes. these are the means by which we can bring asylum seekers into the labour market and integrate them. work is the best means of adaptation and integration and benefits both the individual and society. asylum seekers must be allowed to work at the same time as their asylum application is being processed. in order to facilitate access to employment, we should better examine and recognise the qualifications and professional qualifications of refugees and asylum seekers. small and medium-sized enterprises play a crucial role in the employment of refugees and asylum seekers. the authorities must offer smes comprehensive and tailor-made support and advice. at the same time, all possible assistance must be given to asylum seekers to set up businesses. the national minimum wage and working conditions must affect refugees in the same way as others. we have no reason to create our own labour market for refugees. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. it is not a sustainable path, but it creates a two-tier labour market, which loses both refugees and other workers.
mr president, i think we are at a very important time concerning really integrating our values into our interests in trade policy. we have the excellent communication from commissioner malmström on trade for all, and we have the agenda 2030, the so—called sustainable development goals. there are clearly two big challenges. companies deserve for the eu to actively support all kinds of initiatives on the sustainability and accountability of supply chains, because no company today can afford to be caught employing forced labour in their sub—contracting or child labour, or the like. secondly, i believe that the eu has a big role in creating the enabling the environment for sustainable development in our trading partner countries. we can draw conclusions in our trade agreements on how to fight against corruption, how to make governments more accountable and how to help the freedom of civil society.
the question of the blue card. you are right that prosecution is pointless, but i would like to ask you if you are aware that hate crime in the uk has increased dramatically because of this rise in nationalism. what do you think of the fact that poles, perhaps french people, but also finns who have moved there are increasingly asked in everyday life when you are going to leave? what is your opinion of the change in the british mental climate caused by brexit?
in writing. all the majorities after the brexit vote agree that the eu must be reformed. some argue that much of the eu's internal market regulation is somehow unnecessary and that the eu should return to a strict 'economic union'. if we look at the free movement of goods and services in a broader perspective, the absurdity of the argument becomes clear: the products and services sold in the single market must be covered by uniform standards, otherwise the whole internal market will be undermined. the people have been forgotten in the course of economic cooperation, and this is partly what is causing the present crisis. jean monnet, a founding member of the eu, once said that the eu must be a union of people, not states. article 2 of the lisbon treaty states that the union's objective is to promote peace, its values and the well-being of its peoples. the european union must be about the well-being of its citizens, just as the state and the local authorities. these rights deserve the same legal protection as subsidies for agriculture, for example, rather than being voluntary. it is a question of principle, but it is also a question of the future of the community as a whole.
in writing. the uk referendum result was a disappointment, but an even more unpleasant surprise was that the leave campaign, which called for britain to leave the eu, had no plan for the future. this is a terrible situation for the voters who believe in them. two weeks after the vote, britain is still in a state of complete confusion: the prime minister has announced her resignation and the leaders of the leave campaign have left office. no one takes responsibility for the outcome. the uk must now decide whether or not to follow the advice of the referendum. the longer the uncertainty lasts, the more damaging it is both for the eu and, above all, for britain itself. but it seems that the solution is not coming very soon. the country needs to get a new leadership first, and the prime minister candidates seem to have very different ideas about how the change would be implemented. negotiations between the eu and the uk can only start once the country has submitted a formal notification of withdrawal. eu27 leaders last week said that if britain wants to continue to have access to the eu's single market, it must reciprocate all four of the eu's fundamental freedoms, including the free movement of labour. this is a good, clear line. now we're waiting for the british to resign. if the uk leaves the european union, it will continue to be an important and close partner for us. but it is clear that it cannot get a better deal for membership than it has outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, partly because it touched on issues which are partly within the competence of the member states. the single line on the integration of refugees guides the distribution of refugees evenly among member states, which prevents the additional burden for a few member states. however, it is up to the member states to decide how they will use resources for regional development, for example, and how integration will be carried out most effectively at national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted today on the report on 'refugees: social inclusion and integration into the labour market' in several respects against the voting line of my alde group. the points made in the report, such as the permanent burden-sharing mechanism and the common asylum system, do not seem to me to solve the refugee problem facing europe. it is desirable that each member state be able to assume its responsibilities on its own basis, which also guarantees the best conditions for the integration of immigrants. we need to coordinate, but not talk. each member state is also best placed to take the lead in matters relating to integration and employment policy, where the eu's role will be to ensure that the eu's basic principles are respected.
in writing. ‒ a prerequisite for an effective global trade policy is also the identification and adequate consideration of non-economic criteria. i voted in favour of the report because it took account of almost all the rules affecting trade policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because a balanced trade and investment strategy creates opportunities for economic growth in a number of sectors. i also found the inclusion of the agricultural sector in the trade strategy very good. the problems caused by the agricultural crisis for producers can be alleviated in the future when alternative markets become available.
the next item is the report by jeppe kofod and michael theurer, on behalf of the taxe 2 committee, on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect (2016/2038(ini)) (a8-0223/2016).
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues theurer and kofod. true, that was the way in my childhood adventure books a "cow foot" was an instrument of criminal activity. in parliament today, the kofod is an instrument for legal activity, um es nicht teurer zu machen. today, at this very moment, the commission has come out with a proposal to renew the money laundering directive. of course, this is no coincidence. we saw in connection with the panama papers that the money laundering directive in particular has a big hole in it, despite our attempts at the previous stage to correct this. the core of the work we were doing at the time was actually about what is paradoxically called 'beneficial ownership', i.e. the actual owner. beneficial translates to swedish for charity. this is not a charity case. it's about building in the labyrinths of tax evasion, various shell companies that make it impossible to follow where the tax money disappears. the review we conducted at the time showed that the big problem was really the uk's beneficial ownership. the structures of the various foundations that britain has built up over the centuries. we know that this is one of the fundamental elements of the whole system of tax evasion that exists in the world. for that reason, i think we can say today that we are going to turn brexit into taxit.
mr president, without whistleblowers we would not have the taxe 2 report. without courageous individuals like antoine deltour, we might never have known about the secret tax treaties between luxembourg and the big international companies. without the panama papers leak, we would not have set up a new pana committee of inquiry in parliament and tax evasion would continue as before. so how do we deal with these informants? deltour was sentenced last week to a year's probation by a luxembourg court. this isn't right. whistleblowers should be protected and rewarded, not accused and condemned. one effective way to protect them is to offer them the opportunity to inform on an anonymous basis. the mere knowledge of this possibility will curb corruption.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr schwab, and all those who have been involved in the preparation of this directive over the last few years. as we heard, this has been a very challenging directive and it has been a very challenging negotiation to get it through. cybersecurity is an area that clearly needs common regulation and common standards at european level, especially as we move towards a more integrated digital single market. at the moment, we know that the capabilities and preparedness of the member states in terms of cybersecurity vary widely, and that means that europe-wide preparedness is insufficient, because we can only be as strong as the weakest link in this system. the commission originally proposed that the key service providers, energy, transport, banks, financial markets, healthcare should be covered by this directive. the negotiations later added water supply and distribution and digital infrastructure. it can be said that these areas are justified, and it is precisely the providers of essential services who must be able to ensure that we operate safely throughout europe.
mr president, science is the future, excellence is the result of cooperation, and scientific achievements must not be limited to national frontiers. research and innovation will boost the economy now and improve industrial competitiveness for the long term. horizon 2020, the world's largest science programme, is helping europe move towards a smarter and more sustainable society. i would like to mention in particular research support for the bio-economy, the post-fossil era and the digitalisation that is transforming europe. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his personal commitment to the regional bonus scheme in the baltic sea. it's a really bad idea to cut research and innovation funding. neither europe nor the member states should cut off the eu's future growth potential. the balance was already considered when horizon was launched, and horizon will support science with quality criteria. in this competition, europe is fighting a global battle. cohesion funds are needed to create regional equality and there is a place for that too. the number of programmes is a matter for consideration, and we can also consider policy synergies. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). we must be very careful in the future about how we protect science and keep britain in the european scientific community.
mr president, the inadequacy of external border controls has proved to be one of the major problems facing the european union in the last year. in this respect, i am very pleased that this legislative package, the border security package which the commission presented in december, has been able to be negotiated so quickly with the member states and the european parliament and that we are now able to reform the legislation concerning both the maritime safety agency, the fisheries control agency and the establishment of the border and coast guard agency. this is a very important step for europe, because we know that we can only guarantee free movement within europe and the functioning of the schengen area if we have strong and effective control of the external borders. it has been established that at present there are over 300 different authorities in the member states responsible for border control, maritime security, search and rescue and environmental protection. the information flow between the authorities is not necessarily sufficient, even within the member state. in this context, it is now essential to reform the way in which information flows between different authorities throughout europe, and to make use of common data, reduce duplication and, above all, pool expertise, pool resources and increase joint operations. all this means that we can guarantee a functioning internal market within the european union, free movement, and on the other hand we can intervene in the activities of human traffickers and save people from drowning.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like first of all to welcome the commission’s common sense and the rapporteurs’ steam and guts to uphold what might at first glance appear only rational, but with a closer look turns out to be a strange fight against something that we simply should not have to fight against in the first place. the important role of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) supervisory committee is to regularly monitor the implementation of olaf’s investigative function. in order to fulfil this responsibility, the supervisory committee needs a well-functioning secretariat. and as the committee, also its secretariat must be independent from olaf; therefore, appropriate financing should be guaranteed directly by the commission, separately from olaf’s budget. all this is rather clear to me – and it is good that the commission thinks alike on this matter. but as regards the issue of whether the secretariat should be physically in or out of the same building where the supervisory committee and olaf itself are located, let me be as clear as possible: what we are dealing with here is a very serious matter inside the union. to move the secretariat out of the building, using artificial argumentation, is another worrying signal of the state of affairs at olaf. olaf is supposed to be – and only to be – concentrating on activities investigating fraud inside the european union or in the use of the union resources. it should not be concentrating on issues like this. the effective functioning of the committee requires constant contacts with the offices of olaf. therefore, it is essential that the secretariat is placed in olaf premises. congratulations to the rapporteur for making sure this common sense prevails.
the question of the blue card. you said that the british people have voted for complete change. what is your comment on the fact that there is currently a 57% increase in hate crime in britain since brexit? the last thing the independent reported was that the descendants of german emigrants to britain are seeking to regain their german citizenship, fearing anti-semitism. is this the change? do you deplore this type of change that has happened in britain since brexit, that hate crimes have increased so dramatically?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the objective of clarifying the current labelling of refrigerators in terms of energy efficiency must be supported. the commission will also be strengthening market surveillance and will set up a product database to help the process, which will help trade in the internal market.
in writing. ‒ in the vote on the european border and coast guard, i voted against the proposal in the final vote, as it deepens eu integration and does not offer real solutions to the growing flow of migrants and the refugee crisis that is testing europe. instead of creating new rules on border control with common mechanisms, we need to effectively tackle and curb the causes of migration, return to compliance with the dublin treaty and increase cooperation within frontex with the resources already in place.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to extend the role of the eu fisheries control agency should be supported, given the changed circumstances, in particular as a result of the refugee crisis. it is important that efca can work with better agencies and member states' actors.
in writing. ‒ in preparation for the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework, the parliament's report proposes, inter alia, an increase in the eu budget for the remaining period up to 2020. i was against this. i also supported amendment no 9, which rejects the idea of a euro area budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because there is a need for more interoperability, efficiency and effectiveness between horizon 2020 and the esi funds in terms of public funding. we are calling on the european commission to take further action in this area. however, i would like to stress the important role of impact assessments before major structural changes are undertaken.
in writing. ‒ in my resolution on the preparation of the commission's 2017 work programme, i opposed, as i had done, any move to deepen eu integration, and in particular the euro area, by gradually transferring decision-making from the national states to eu decision-making systems. the overall resolution on the preparation of the work programme is a federalist eu programme, based on the creation of a 'united states of europe'. i cannot support, among other things, a common monetary policy and the acceleration of the five-president plan, the creation of a banking union, a consolidated common foreign and security policy as part of the nato pillar and the gradual transfer of decision-making to brussels.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution politicises the loan from the european investment bank to belarus. the human rights and democratic situation in belarus is poor and has deteriorated further. however, in the past, a political reason has not been a valid reason for the eib to refuse to lend, unless there were political-economic reasons for refusing to grant the loan, for example, because the political situation in the country requesting the loan was so fragile that the loan could be risky to recover. in accordance with this principle, i did not support parliament's opposition to the commission's delegated decision to grant a financial guarantee to the eib.
the question of the blue card. you said quite forcefully that the biggest threat to europe at the moment is the kremlin. do you really think that, taking into account, for example, the peoples of europe who have already suffered from terrorism and so on, that terrorism is not the greatest threat but that it is russia? could it not be that there would gradually come a time when we would seek more common interests than stir up hatred against one another? through common interests to peace.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. – mr president, it is crucial to fulfil the rights of persons with disabilities in the european union’s development and humanitarian action. we must ensure that the implementation plan of agenda 2030, the paris climate agreement and the sendai framework for disaster risk reduction is being carried out in line with the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. we also have to take into account the pledge to leave no one behind, which is in the remit of agenda 2030. disabled people suffer disproportionately during crisis situations. this is especially true for disabled women and girls. their empowerment to become actors in humanitarian crisis situations is a step towards ensuring that their needs are also addressed. i would like to highlight the importance of giving support to the organisation and participation of persons with disabilities in the process of drafting legislation in partner countries. this would be an efficient way of ensuring respect for their rights, and civil society is particularly important in this respect. finally, the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is central in working towards ‘nothing about us without us’ and this must equally be fulfilled in eu external action. this report and the rapporteur, helga stevens, are an important embodiment of that principle.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. – mr president, it is my pleasure to speak on behalf of the committee on legal affairs. it is important to note that that committee also adopted its opinion in full unanimity. so we all agree how important it is that the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities will be fully implemented and that all eu and member state legislation will be brought into line with the convention. this requires a thorough evaluation of all eu legislation. i want specifically to highlight the importance of access to justice. access to justice is not just about fair legislation: it is about legal procedures which must be adjusted to the needs of persons with disabilities, inter alia through eu judicial training programmes. there must also be an individual and tailor—made complaint mechanism to ensure that all the rights encompassed in the convention are provided not just on paper but in reality. this convention brings added value to the eu legal system because it enables us to understand that people have special needs vis-à-vis justice, as elsewhere. i wholeheartedly ask all of you to support ms stevens in today’s vote.
the author. mr president, one of the best news in international politics in recent years has been the transition from military to civilian rule in myanmar. the european parliament also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a military coup. all discriminatory laws should be abolished. it has also been good to see that even aung san suu kyi herself is now finally interested in the situation of the rohingya people. i think there's a lot of room for improvement here. this is the question that is holding back myanmar's progress. finally, i would like to remind you that all the western countries, including china, are very interested in trading with myanmar. ensure that the government of myanmar also promotes the transparent and responsible use of natural resources and transparency in the administration in general.
mr president, a well-functioning energy market is very important to all of us. apparently, energy tax refunds have become a major tax-aid machine for some large international corporations. in finland, too, they account for more than 95% of the €200 million in tax aid. the paper industry is the biggest taxpayer in our country. according to the vatt study, a large proportion of the companies that received an energy tax rebate did not have any competitiveness problems at all, but were already above average profitable before the tax rebate machine. the state thus loses eur 200 million in tax revenues every year without receiving any return on its funds. if energy production is supported, i would hope that in future the aid money would be directed towards promoting small-scale and low-emission solutions close to the consumer and towards improved energy efficiency.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the rapporteur notes that the eu’s financial allocation for the trust fund comes mainly from the european development fund and he condemns the use of edf funds for migration management. i do not agree with this point of view. i think there should be a close link between any development assistance and migration control. i do not think the european taxpayer can be expected to contribute more, while not being entitled to demand something in return. at the moment, african countries have very little incentive to curb the migration of their citizens to europe. furthermore, the effectiveness of traditional development assistance is questionable. instead, we should find ways of mutually beneficial cooperation, for example in the field of migration management.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, it is, of course, in your best interest that we are going to address the so-called root causes of migration and the need of millions of people who have been forcibly displaced. but i am afraid that when i listen to you defending the trust fund i cannot take you 100% seriously. why? because we are concerned that the trust fund constitutes yet another attempt to divert the diminishing development funds towards aims related to protecting europe from people fleeing war and poverty – and this is not acceptable. we cannot be sure that the internationally agreed principles of development effectiveness are fulfilled. parliament has extremely limited rights of scrutiny and, as already mentioned by colleagues, if we look at how this fund was put together, we can conclude that, despite the expectation that member states would be eager to contribute to it, the contributions by member states to complement eu development funding, mainly from the european development fund (edf), have been extremely limited – to my knowledge around eur 69 million. so why, again, a separate structure which diverts our work from really addressing the root causes? of course, we have colleagues like mr halla-aho who says that migration control should be the main aim of spending on eu development assistance, but i could not disagree with him more. we have to come back to making sure that we really help people’s everyday lives: that we create livelihoods, we build schools, we help with health and education and we support women and girls. a lot of other things can be done but, please, not with development money. we have another example which is very topical: we have this amendment to the regulation on the instrument contributing to peace and stability, and i am sorry to say it but this is yet another attempt to divert development money to other purposes.
mr president, i certainly did not say that the main aim of development assistance should be immigration control. i said there should be a close link between the two. i think mass immigration is not even in the best interest of the countries of origin, not to mention ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the g20 summit (2016/2769 ((rsp)).
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner bieńkowska. i will continue to speak in swedish for the benefit of the public back home. we are in a very interesting and perhaps embarrassing situation. in the united states the process has been very clear and the consumers and citizens have been rewarded, so to speak, by the fact that it has been clearly and unequivocally demonstrated that volkswagen has used what are known as defeat devices. in europe we have a slightly different situation and that worries me very much. because we don't just have defeat devices, we have manipulation devices. we also have defeat performance, which is manipulation activity. the committee has not received the information it needs, and it points to the possibility that there are other culprits than volkswagen alone. it is of the utmost importance for citizens and consumers to be able to demonstrate clearly and unequivocally that the commission and its members had their hands free during this process. if it cannot be demonstrated, the commission will be obliged to ensure that citizens are not compensated for the losses they have suffered, both in terms of a worse environment and in terms of a worse product they have bought. for that reason, i now call on the commissioner to take this matter very seriously and to take it straight from the front and stop winding himself up. give us our information and maybe we can save the consumer.
mr president, one of the most important issues of the autumn is the reduction of transport emissions. the commission has high ambitions, with the dream of zero-emission transport. unfortunately, the emis scandal has shown that when greed gets in the way, the rally is fierce and the ride is cold. think about it: 400 000 premature deaths caused by particulate emissions from transport each year in europe - no small matter. in addition to environmental protection, the second major challenge in dealing with the scandal in its entirety is restoring consumer confidence. we all have a place in the show now. the european car industry must stop the cycle and accept its responsibilities. on the other hand, we three - the commission, the council and parliament - must work together to ensure that the rules of the game are sufficiently rigorous in the future and that there is no longer any room for fraud. it's not enough to find the guilty. the whole chain must be crossed so that the lessons learned from the mistakes can be used and this will not happen again in the future.
in writing. ‒ finland has always been at the forefront of innovation, and this has created economic growth. this report highlighted the need to support innovation effectively throughout the european union in the future, which is a vital enabler of economic growth. that is one of the reasons why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - we must learn from the mistakes that preceded the volkswagen scandal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electricity from renewable sources. at the same time, we must look to the future with greater courage. the internal combustion engine is not the last stage of human evolution. i hope that the work of the committee of inquiry will proceed smoothly and that it will receive all the information it needs from all the relevant parties.
in writing. ‒ the report's elements promoting energy market security and consumer and environmental friendliness are good. the development of energy markets is essential to reduce greenhouse gases. this will be achieved by creating a functioning energy market for renewable energy sources. a balanced market also supports innovation and the success of new growth companies. in many member states, fossil fuels are still supported directly or indirectly. we're gonna have to do something about this. it is important that market integration takes place taking into account the views of the member states. member states often have the best picture of their own situation. they know best how to achieve, for example, the required renewable energy target.
in writing. ‒ the integration of renewable energies and energy markets into heating and cooling policy is of paramount importance in the fight against global warming. the proposal also leaves room for member states' own regulation. this will also help to accelerate the transition towards a more sustainable heating and cooling strategy, taking into account the specific circumstances of the member states. it is precisely the consideration of national and regional specificities that will be crucial to the success of this plan. the strategy should also take greater account of geothermal energy, which is a cost-effective and environmentally friendly heating and cooling solution.
in writing. ‒ finland is a leading country in the use of district heating and cooling and combined heat and power. i voted in favour of the eu strategy because it can help to promote the co-generation of electricity and heat and the use of biomass in europe. however, i did not support article 23 because i think it misrepresents rural buildings, which in finland, for example, are often very energy efficient.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for a resolution because the support for smes from the esi fund should be more accessible. smes have a high potential for economic growth and are important employers, especially in disadvantaged areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because i think the empl and femm committees of the parliament are going to the member states on this issue. i would like to stress that it is important to ensure a balance between work and private life for both women and men. i believe that matters such as parental leave and the minimum wage should be decided as closely as possible to the citizen, that is, in the member states, not at eu level.
‒ the report on the creation of conditions favourable to work-life balance contains a number of proposals for equality in working life, which are generally favourable and contribute to achieving a more equal working life. however, in a few areas, such as the division of parental leave between families, i believe that it is precisely the families themselves who are best aware of how parental leave is best suited to their situation. it is important that free quotas should also be created, but this must be done by the member states themselves, listening to the wishes of the families. in the field of employment and social policy, the eu has only the most restrictive role to play, since the best expertise and know-how is found in the member states themselves, given the diversity of member states. i am in favour of keeping the eu's decisionmaking powers limited and the issues raised in this report should be largely within the member states' decisionmaking powers in the field of employment and social policy. the report as a whole is also somewhat confusing and unbalanced. for these reasons, i have deviated from my group's line of voting and voted against this report in the final vote.
mr president, it is important that the european union cooperates with turkey. as a member of nato, turkey plays an important role in european security and, as we know, in the solution of the refugee crisis. at the same time, however, we cannot ignore the actions of the authoritarian regime now in force in turkey. even before the coup attempt, turkey could not be said to have been a model of democracy, but now human rights are being trampled on, freedom of speech and the media are being restricted, and the rule of law is not being implemented in turkey. it is important that the european union should raise the issues in the negotiations and try to address them. turkey is a candidate country to the european union and is required to implement the rule of law and good governance. it is clear that visa-free travel with turkey cannot be achieved until turkey fulfils the conditions for visa-free travel.
in writing. thank you to president juncker for his state of the union speech! there are many things tearing europe apart right now, even though at the same time the countries of europe need each other more than ever. but the eu cannot act if its members sit on the sidelines. the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, and a political union of peoples. we do not need to open up too many new doors, but we must concentrate on implementing and promoting the decisions already taken. in particular, it is necessary to strengthen the european economy and growth and to consolidate common security. the themes raised in the speech, such as digitalisation, international trade and boosting investment, are important for jobs and growth. the european union's ability to meet the challenges it faces will be undermined if it does not even try to respect the rules and principles it has agreed to. over the years, a culture of working together has developed, with agreements extended to suit the needs of the moment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. the member states have also been willing to flex even though the debts and public deficits of other union members have grown beyond the agreed limits. but every time you break the rules, sooner or later you pay. it is time for the eu to return to its roots and do less, but better. the member states must be activated to act together again and take responsibility for ensuring that decisions taken together are also implemented. this is to the benefit of the european union and the member states themselves. the eu is needed for the future.
in writing. ‒ i support the eu-sadc economic partnership agreement, because it allows us to support the development of these partners in a sustainable way. however, this economic partnership agreement does not only create the conditions for the development of the states, but provides eu support for this development in a way that rewards the economic development of these states, while creating the conditions for growth in the way accepted by the wto rules.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the recent events in poland. the polish constitutional court has ruled that the provisions of several laws adopted in poland are unconstitutional. freedom of expression and assembly have been curtailed and the spirit of the eu treaty has been flagrantly violated. i think that the venice commission and the european commission are making the right points and that poland, in cooperation with the eu, must correct the mistakes made and return to the way a member state operates under the eu treaty for the sake of democracy, for the sake of the people and for the sake of poland itself.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution. this motion for a resolution went beyond the eu's competence in many respects. as a good point to note in this document, i would like to mention the section on cabotage, which was the right direction to take in order to harmonise the rules. however, i felt that the resolution as a whole contained too many problematic points to be able to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the adoption of the report on social dumping in the european union. the report as a whole is a major infringement of the sovereignty of the member states and its arguments are sometimes simplistic and even incorrect. the basic proposal also called for strengthening the sustainability of the emu as a whole, which i cannot support. the report also deals with the rules on restricting cabotage traffic and proposes their abolition. these are not welcome reforms from the point of view of finland or most eu countries. the alde group also voted in favour of rejecting the whole report.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner vestager for the admirable work you are doing to promote fair competition. european competition needs a level playing field. if large multinational companies are able to operate with almost no taxation, local companies are left behind. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. as president juncker said in his speech this morning, europeanism means equal treatment, equal rights, equal responsibilities. this also applies to companies. if we want growth, if we want european success stories, our own apple and facebook, we must guarantee our growth companies a fair chance to compete against the international waste.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner vestager, you are the best! actually, we're discussing an old and well-known economic problem. the theory talks about profit-seeking and rent-seeking, where profit-seeking is the diligent entrepreneur and rent-seeking is the lazy coupon-cutter. here are many examples that the irish and apple can use if they want to look in the mirror. perhaps the most famous is the silk road. we know what happened when they tried to prevent the mongol empire from cutting off too much of the interest. genghis khan then took steps to counteract this. it was a pretty big disaster for the european countries as well. in that sense, ireland is, so to speak, in this example. there's another story, too. the more biblical story is about the apple and eve. the european story is about margrethe and the apple. she took a piece of the fruit of wisdom.
rapporteur. – madam president, as we know, europe has not been very successful in dealing with the migration and refugee crisis. one part of the failure is the lack of an effective returns policy – the inability to send back those whose application has been rejected and who do not have the right to stay or enter the eu. only some 40% of return decisions are actually enforced. it goes without saying that this seriously undermines the credibility and legitimacy of the asylum system in the eyes of our citizens. it also encourages the abuse of the asylum procedure by those who are not entitled to international protection, which in turn prevents us from using our limited resources on those in genuine need. this regulation establishes an improved and uniform european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. the current travel document for return, based on the 1994 council recommendation, is not widely accepted by third countries, for reasons that include its inadequate security standards. the commission proposes to harmonise the format, security features and technical specifications of the document. there have been certain misconceptions concerning the nature of this proposal, both in parliament and outside it. i have been asked whether this means that it will no longer be possible to seek protection in europe or whether all immigrants will now be deported. this, of course, is not the case. this is a technical proposal, and does not affect the rules concerning asylum, staying in the eu or the issuing of the travel document. the aim is to ensure more efficient implementation and enforcement of the existing legislation and decisions. this regulation is a small but important element of the eu asylum system, as it might improve the effectiveness of our cooperation with third countries on return matters. it also contributes to reducing the administrative and bureaucratic burden on both member states and third countries. the agreement between parliament and the council was concluded in one technical and one political trilogue, about which i wish to raise a few points. parliament managed to retain a reference to the need for the recognition of the travel document to be part of negotiations with the diplomatic representatives of third countries when discussing re-admission. parliament also kept its reference to the rights of the child through a reference to article 19 of the charter of fundamental rights and the need to respect international and eu legal obligations, notably the charter. the agreement also reflects the current thinking on delegated acts under the inter-institutional agreement on better law-making. the travel document is not a magical solution to our difficulties with return. it is not known to what extent the lack of a harmonised document is a real reason behind the reluctance of some third countries to take back their citizens, rather than merely an excuse. an important element of the agreement was securing a full review of the document outside of the normal review process, two years after the entry into force of the regulation at the latest, after which it is to be incorporated into the normal returns directive review. the agreement stresses the need to seek the recognition of the return document in the readmission agreements concluded by the european union and by the member states with third countries. for the desired effect to be achieved, it is important that the new document be put to use by all member states. by updating the instruments we have, we are, we hope, moving towards a european asylum system which is better equipped to deal with the challenges we face. at present, part of that challenge is ensuring an effective return rate. this agreement is a good result for parliament and has, hopefully, produced a better travel document for the future: a document that is more widely used by member states and more widely recognised by third countries. i would like to conclude by thanking the presidency, the commission and all the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and their contributions to and efficient work on this legislative proposal. i hope that everyone can support this outcome in tomorrow’s vote.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone for their contributions this evening and briefly reply to some of the critical comments made, both by the left and the right of the chamber, in that order. while there are vast ideological differences as to what to do about irregular migration and the migratory pressure, i believe most of us agree that the existing legislation must be implemented. this regulation is about just that: we have rules concerning asylum and residents. if a person can de-facto stay regardless of whether they meet the conditions, then those rules are just dead letters. as i said, this is detrimental to the credibility of our legislation and encourages more and more people to cross the mediterranean. while i am eurosceptic, and do not support, for example, the centralised processing of asylum applications, and while i do not necessarily agree with everything in this text, because it is a compromise, i believe this travel document is an example of cooperation that can bring added value to member states, regardless of what political decisions they make at the national level. so thank you very much, colleagues and commissioner, and i am counting on your support tomorrow.
mr president, i believe it is high time to wake up and admit that relocation of asylum seekers is not a solution to the refugee crisis in general or the specific troubles in greece and italy. first, relocation in any significant numbers is impossible because of the political pressure within member states, especially in those member states where all migrants want to be relocated. second, migrants arrive in greece and italy because from there they can continue to their preferred destination, in other words, the more we relocate the more will be encouraged to cross the mediterranean. in short, we should help as many people as possible in camps until they can return home, instead of relocating a small fraction of them within europe. especially, we must not delegate the control of our external borders to a country like turkey.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work. i welcome the draft report by parliament and i share the view that postal services should be provided as a universal service for all citizens of the union. i believe that the definition of universal service should be able to be harmonised and that the quality of service should be assessed on the basis of minimum standards across europe. in the context of the heated debate in my own country, i would like to say that i do not think that low population density is a reason to reduce the frequency of distribution under the universal service obligation. the cheap and reliable delivery of postal items and parcels is an important basic service for all citizens, but also a living standard for businesses across europe. i hope that the structures will be reformed not in a problem-centred way but in a solution-centred way, and that it will be seen that postal distribution is not a burden or a cost, but a key function of society which also builds regional cohesion. postmen are also a backbone to be cherished, not harassed.
in writing. the issue of securing an 'adequate' income for the majority of the population, as mentioned by commission president juncker, will be a huge one in the near future. the number of jobs is decreasing and the wealth is accumulating mostly for the wealthy. the safeguarding of an adequate income level is also important for the purpose of question 5 by mr handel, which examines the long-term dependency caused by minimum income systems. the finnish government is experimenting in the near future with a so-called basic income, which aims to encourage citizens to make efforts to get out of subsidies. the basic income is intended to ensure a certain standard of living for all, to encourage employment and to reduce the bureaucratic burden of social benefits. it may be intended to replace other social benefits in part or in full. in finland, the experiment will involve 2000 unemployed people who will receive a tax-free basic income of eur 560. the salary earned on top of this income does not affect the basic income, which encourages employment even for short periods. the new basic model, due to its simplicity, can replace subsistence systems and reduce administrative costs. current models of living may not correspond to the labour markets of the 2010s, and experiments such as basic income should therefore be closely monitored at eu level as well. in addition to the finnish experiment, the swiss basic income experiment can also offer fresh perspectives on the renewal of living patterns.
mr president, commissioner, the globalisation fund has worked well when it has helped people to re-train or to find a new job. we must learn from these good experiences. but it must be admitted that the work of the fund has many shortcomings, and these need to be corrected. there are cases where the fund's resources have been used to compensate for national social benefits. no fund has been set up for this purpose. it's designed to help people. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules. another disadvantage is that the rate of reemployment has been far too low in some cases where aid has been granted, reaching as low as 4%. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur. he has been very valuable in bringing forward proposals for reform and in explaining the work of the globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ the report on the general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation made too much of the rights of member states in the field of labour and social policy legislation. for these reasons i did not support the adoption of the report.
for the alde group mr president, the alde group welcomes the report drawn up by the committee on development and cooperation on the future of relations between the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european union. when the cotonou agreement expires in 2020, we want to replace it with a new cooperation agreement, focusing on the 2030 agenda for all the world's nations and the achievement of the sustainable development goals. the cotonou agreement has been designed to reduce poverty in the african, caribbean and pacific countries and to help them integrate into the world economy. unfortunately, there has been insufficient progress towards achieving the above objectives. the next agreement should allow for deepening and intensifying cooperation, in accordance with the will of the member states, in order to promote positive developments not only in the economic field but also in the fields of peace and security, human rights, the rule of law, migration, climate change and, more broadly, environmental protection. a lot has happened since 2000, when the cotonou agreement was signed. the structure of the partnership will have to be adapted to meet new challenges and will have to be aligned with regional agreements and organisations. the potential of this partnership is considerable. together we form a major grouping with a common institutional framework and a large budget, the european development fund.
mr president, the world's population is projected to grow to 9.5 billion by 2050. so the priority must be to ensure that everyone in the world has enough to eat. i think it's paramount that the quality of the food is emphasized more than just empty calories. at present, food is produced in large quantities, but the calories from such staple crops as corn, wheat and rice do not contain enough of the essential micronutrients. the world's poorest citizens are often dependent on the staple crops produced in their own country. it is therefore important that in future we should move towards a more nutritious oats, barley, rye, millet and spelt as the main cereals. at present, up to two billion people suffer from iron deficiency, and one fifth of the world's population is zinc deficient. with an estimated 170 million children suffering from malnutrition and the resulting stunting, the importance of the nutrient content of crops cannot be overemphasized. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the finnish milk powder and the bull fat product are examples of sustainable solutions for the future.
author. – mr president, in 2003 the european union took action against illegal logging and trade in illegally—logged tree timber by adopting the flegt action plan, the central element of which is the system of voluntary partnership agreements signed between the eu and timber—producing countries in africa, asia and latin america. in 2015, the european court of auditors issued a special report identifying gaps in flegt implementation and enforcement. the court found that eu support to timber—producing countries was not sufficiently effective and targeted and called for an appropriate work plan with clear objectives, milestones and a dedicated budget. the court also found that monitoring and reporting on progress had been inadequate, in particular due to the lack of an accountability framework. the commission has recently issued an evaluation of the flegt action plan, 12 years after its entry into force. given this context, five committees asked the commission to answer the following questions. first, how will the commission concretely respond to the european court of auditors recommendations in its special report no 13/2015? will additional resources be mobilised to respond to implementation challenges and will specific monitoring and evaluation mechanisms be developed to strengthen implementation of the eu action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade? what is the commission strategy to revive the political momentum for flegt in voluntary partnership agreement countries and to accelerate the governance reforms that are necessary for the issuance of flegt licences? thirdly, how is the commission ensuring coherence and synergies between climate mitigation policies and flegt, especially on governance aspects?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, it is of the utmost importance that the commission really comes up with a comprehensive eu action plan on deforestation and forest degradation. we have lots of reasons and obligations as to why we need this. first of all, we have the un sustainable development goals and the paris climate agreement, which both require effective action on illegal logging and deforestation. besides, illegal logging is a major problem in illicit capital flows from developing countries. indeed, flegt has had many successes, but the global context has changed a lot since its introduction in 2003. so now we really need new measures and we need to look at innovative ways of shedding light on the supply chains. it is a very important task for us to make sure that consumers in the end—user countries, like those in the european union, have full access to information on the origin of the timber. i believe that flegt could actually inspire many other sectors and products. the approach is really innovative, with the voluntary partnership agreements. one of the things that i have noticed is that the evaluation has come to the conclusion that there are limitations in terms of lack of data on illegal logging and trade and on governance achievements. here i believe some new instruments could be introduced. we could see how customs information could be used to shed light on which companies are importing what to the eu member states. i also firmly believe that we could look in the countries of origin at how we can support the countries to put in place proper systems of forest inventory. i am proud to say that finland, my country, has been very active in helping countries like vietnam and tanzania in this field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the eu and also finland are committed to the objectives of the paris agreement. however, i would like to stress that the european commission's proposals for implementing the objectives of the climate agreement are not yet on the right track, particularly in the lulucf and burden sharing sectors. the specific characteristics of finnish sustainable forest management must be taken into account more closely in the further development of these directives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the approval of the microsoft application is very important for finland. the structural change caused by globalisation has been exceptionally severe for the finnish it sector, reflected in mass redundancies and unemployment. the eu's support is welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the ericsson situation is similar to the finnish case of microsoft, where eu support for regions suffering from redundancies and unemployment is welcome as a result of the radical restructuring of the it sector.
in writing. ‒ legal certainty is one of the most important rights and the guarantee of equal legal protection in all member states is a prerequisite for the recognition of criminal convictions. in many areas of jurisdiction, the member states have jurisdiction and it is therefore essential that parliament does not go too far in its report, but respects human rights and guarantees everyone the right to a fair trial.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the trilogue negotiations was a significant achievement for this report and i voted in favour of this report. the common rules of the game can also help to ensure that human rights are respected, particularly in the field of trade policy, and that the death penalty and torture are abolished.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou agreement, signed in 2000, expires in 2020. the aim of the agreement is to promote sustainable development and poverty reduction in the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries and to support their integration into the world economy. i voted in favour of the report because we need to continue our cooperation and update the terms of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020, as it provides a good basis for future negotiations. we must not settle our positions too early, but must seek the best possible form of future cooperation. it will take its final form in the course of negotiations.
mr president, in recent years, during the programmes, growth in greece has been consistently much slower than the troika had forecast. i'd like to ask you now why this has happened. what's wrong with that? many leading economists believe that greece's debts will eventually have to be cut or forgiven. what is the commission's view of the debt reduction for greece? for years, people have been saying that greece will never adapt to the euro and its rules. why does greece not break away from the euro and adopt its own currency? is forcing the eurozone to stay together more important than giving greece the chance to make a turn for the better by adopting its own currency? as the honourable member has repeatedly pointed out in his speeches here in parliament, the greek people have suffered unduly. it is time to finally get some results here in parliament!
madam president, i would like to thank you. i believe the people of greece have a moral right to greater understanding and fair treatment. but a moral right is not easily translated into a legal right or an economic right. and when it comes to morality, there's another rule: ♪ to sweep in front of your own door ♪ the day greece treats its national minorities with the same fairness that it demands of the euro area, the day it has the courage to treat its internal minorities with greater fairness, that day i shall also speak with a much stronger voice for the problems of greece and the greek people. but unless you have the courage to face reality, and moreover the courage to say that there are no minorities, you will not get much understanding in this forum.
mr president, the conflicts of interest of commissioners are not only those of the commissioners themselves but also those of their inner circle and assistants. it is naive to assume that the commissioners' personal declarations of their affiliation alone will suffice to give us a complete picture of who is writing the legislation here. too often, they're written by corporate lobbyists, and for their own benefit, of course. the back and forth between the commissioners' assistants and the business community and the various interest groups should also be better highlighted. the key decision makers often gain access to public sector insider information which should not be sold to large counterparties in the near future. this is a clear flaw that should be corrected.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the situation in calais (2016/2897(rsp)).
there will be no blue cards during this debate.
mr president, let us act in time to get rid of roaming next summer. in the internal market it should be possible to buy goods and services freely. buying a sim card is different. a sim card always uses the local network for phone calls, text messages and data. that is why we need different tools. network operators will still charge one another when we travel. this continues even if that price is not charged to the traveller. that is why we are making legislation for operators on wholesale price caps. as rapporteur, i give my word that this parliament will be ready by the end of november. there is a strong link between the fair use policy and wholesale caps. today there are huge differences in sim card prices between the member states: for phone calls some seven times and for data 35 times or even a hundred times if i look at my home country, finland, and compare, as there operators do not limit data volumes at all on the monthly bill. fair use policy is needed to avoid abusive use, and so as not to put an additional burden on consumers. it is clear that we cannot all order the cheapest sim cards in europe and make that operator pay the local operator whose network we will actually use. mobile usage also varies a lot, with the average use of data ranging from some 0.30 gigabytes to some 10 gigabytes a month. the good news is that investing in capacity will dramatically bring down the unit cost, and data is the most important – if not everywhere, let me tell you that it will be soon. cheap and fast data is our aim because we are aiming for the gigabyte society. we need low enough wholesale caps so that all operators can provide roaming free services and the telecom sector remains competitive, as stated in the digital single market strategy. then there is less need and less fear of restriction on the roaming free services and fair use policy will not be used to limit the right of europeans to have ‘roam like at home’. i think the fair use policy needs to be clarified to a certain extent. fair rules for consumers and information are needed.
the question of the blue card. you spoke of immigration, but the asylum and refugee crises are often confused with the free movement within europe, which i personally consider important. are you prepared to promote intra-european immigration, for example by putting into force a directive on posted workers, without people feeling that mobility also increases the dumping of labour? are you ready to look for these drugs?
in writing. ‒ the resolution was contradictory in its content and contained many details that i could not accept. i therefore voted against the adoption of the resolution in its entirety.
the question of the blue card. given your important role as chair of the committee on foreign affairs, i would have expected a bit more sharp criticism of the european union's role in crisis management. could the european union be seen as a driving force behind humanitarian intervention, for example, and in what way in the future? you said we don't have the hard-core equipment. for example, how could such already existing emergency forces be used to deliver humanitarian aid?
madam president, women are human beings and human rights belong to women. women’s rights are human rights. sexual and reproductive rights are part of human rights. this is an overall accepted principle in the universal declaration of human rights and the beijing declaration, even though some people refuse to accept that. on this basis, human rights – saving the dignity of human beings – is never an issue of subsidiarity. never. you cannot decide that people that are left—handed, dark-haired or blue—eyed do not have services or should be discriminated against because they are different. it is not a matter of a political decision. this is an internationally—agreed and accepted principle. it is as simple as that. democracy cannot mean that if you accept by democratic procedure violence, oppression or dictatorship, it would be acceptable. no. what this means is that the eu has not only the right, but also the duty to safeguard its core values – democracy, human rights and tolerance – and, if we fail to do that, we fail on our core substance. this is the crux of the matter, of the fight we are leading for polish women. i am very saddened that we have to have this kind of discussion in this millennium in europe, after what we have experienced and after what we have done locally, eu—wide and internationally for human rights. so please be civil, to create a civilisation. (applause)
in writing. one of the great things about modern times is that women can control their reproduction. not always, not in almost every part of the world, but better than thousands of generations of women before us. our grandmothers and all the generations of women before them have suffered mentally and physically and died in horrible ways because of the failure to prevent reproduction. women's self-determination has only been a given for a very short time and in a very small part of the world. europe is no exception. the current situation where women are allowed to have at least some control over their reproduction is a fragile one. women and women's rights are not written in stone, but they can be attacked and will be attacked at any time, including in europe. the best way to reduce the number of abortions is to prevent unwanted pregnancies. prevention is achieved through sex education, inexpensive and readily available contraceptives, and social acceptance and support for single mothers. the poor are the ones who are most hurt by restrictions on contraception and abortion. the rich can obtain an abortion abroad, the poor have to resort to illegal abortions or to giving birth to a child even if the birth of the child puts the family and the child in intolerable living conditions. women's bodies and sexuality are being used to make politics again. that's not gonna work. take your political and religious struggles somewhere other than the bodies of women, our bodies. women's bodies and sexuality have been limited and controlled for thousands of years. we're never going back there.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the climate agreement is coming to fruition. that's great! let's roll up our sleeves and get to work. the deal isn't perfect, but we have to take care of our property. we urgently need to redirect funding towards a more environmentally and socially sustainable basis. we are spending billions of dollars on fossil fuels, and by redirecting at least part of this support we could strengthen energy efficiency and promote research, development and use of renewable energies, including in the employment-promoting smes. we must ensure that subsidies and public money are channelled into actions to reduce emissions, whether it be through the ets, the common agricultural policy or the eu's energy and transport policy. otherwise, our agreement will be nothing but a blank piece of paper. each representative can take action on behalf of his or her own government to make things happen at icao and imo.
the voluntary nature of the transparency register in the european union has led to the fact that almost all lobbying and influence is not transparent. this is why we lack reliable information on, among other things, the total number of lobbyists, where they come from, what sectors they represent and how much resources they have at their disposal. for example, canada has had a mandatory transparency register since 1989. the canadian register was nine times larger than the eu's in 2015, despite only 35 million people living in canada and around 510 million in the eu. this indicates that it is possible to create a comprehensive transparency register. in the canadian model, breaches of the transparency register rules can result in fines of up to eur 140 000 or two years in prison. in the current voluntary system, it is impossible to obtain reliable and comprehensive information on the lobbyists who influence the eu institutions and their activities. the creation of a binding transparency register and the effective monitoring of its functioning are therefore essential.
the first item on the agenda is the report by mr heidi hautala, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on monitoring the application of union law: annual report 2014 (2015/2326(ini) (a8-0262/2016).
rapporteur. – madam president, every year the commission reports to parliament and to the council on the application of union legislation. the current report is already the thirty-second of its kind. i had the honour to be the rapporteur for the 2014 report. we can soon discuss the key findings and conclusions, but before that let us think for a moment why these reports are made. the european union was founded to promote peace, democracy and the rule of law. its purpose is to establish an internal market with a highly competitive social market economy and a high level of environmental protection. this all contributes to the well-being of all europeans. if we want to meet these objectives, the eu and its member states must not only make laws, but also implement and apply them. in 2014, environment, health, consumer protection, mobility and transport were again the policy areas with the highest number of new infringement cases. these are policy areas directly linked to the well-being of citizens and to the functioning of the internal market. when it comes to monitoring the application of union law, different institutions have different tasks. first and foremost, the responsibility for the correct application of eu law belongs to the member states. the commission is responsible for the monitoring and, if needed, the enforcement. finally, this parliament has a crucial role in exercising the political oversight of the commission’s enforcement actions. what are the key findings, then, of our political oversight this year? firstly, the enforcement of eu law is not sufficiently transparent. the structured dialogue with member states via the so-called ‘eu pilot system’ seems to have promoted the more efficient enforcement of eu law but, if parliament and if other interested parties are kept in the dark, it will certainly generate problems in the future. we must ensure the utmost transparency. secondly, the eu legal system and its fundamental values, such as the rule of law and respect for human rights, can be a vital tool in tackling many of the problems the accession countries and the countries with association agreements are facing. therefore, in order to provide suitable assistance to carry out necessary legal and judicial reforms, we need more systematic tools to assess the current state of compliance with the relevant eu acquis in these countries. thirdly, we could benefit from a more systematic approach here in the eu, too. this year, the committee on legal affairs received opinions from three other committees – and i want to thank all these committees: economic and monetary affairs, employment and social affairs, and petitions, for their contributions – but perhaps we could further improve our internal procedures so that in future the relevant committees could make even more precise act- and country-specific observations from their field of competence. all in all, the credibility of the eu institutions does not lie only in the quality of our legislation, but also in its correct implementation and application. therefore, i ask the commission and the council to pay close attention both to this report and to the speeches and comments of my colleagues.
mr president, one of the great problems facing the eu as a european community is the implementation of what we have agreed together. this has been reflected, for example, in the solution to the refugee crisis. we agreed together on a minimum of quotas, and then we are unable to meet even that minimum in our own countries. this is constantly eroding the credibility of our shared system. even if our decisions are not always to the liking of the citizens, we are still required to be able to make decisions and also to implement them. the commission is, of course, responsible for monitoring the implementation of legislation and, where necessary, it also intervenes in the activities of the member states. but what are the commission's priorities? the most new infringement procedures in 2014 were in the fields of environment, health, consumer protection, mobility and transport. the implementation of economic policy is indeed required of the member state and its implementation is monitored by the commission like a hawk. we would like to see the same passion in the areas of environment, health, consumer and transport, which are all areas where we have agreed.
rapporteur. – madam president, i think that this debate shows that we are dealing with a very multifaceted, rich area where there are lots of angles that we can focus on. i would like to address a couple of them that were raised in the discussion and also in in your words, commissioner jourová. first, i must say that i am – and i believe my colleagues are as well – disappointed that the commission continues to dismiss the demand by parliament to introduce a more open, efficient and independent eu administration on the grounds of article 298 in the treaties, because it seems that the commission believes that this is an attack against it. it is not. it is also a reminder that the commission is responsible for how the eu administration works in the bodies, offices and agencies of the union, of which there are so many. how can you be so sure that the administration is open, efficient and independent in all those tens of different institutions? secondly, i would like to say that it is very important that we continue to open up what better regulation means. i would like to touch on the aspect of prevention. last friday, i organised a seminar in my home city of helsinki with experts from consumer law authorities, consumer associations, trade associations and others. i must say that, when the subject is the digital agenda, under new proposals by the commission on contracts on the purchase of digital content and tangible goods, many of these stakeholders and authorities complained about the complexity and the way in which these new proposals add to complexity. this means that it will be very difficult to apply this type of legislation properly. i think there is no easy way out, but we need to work together and i hope that that in the next year the parliament, when giving the answer to the commission’s next report, will have a more structured cooperation. we also missed opinions from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on transport and tourism, having seen that these are the areas where most of the infringements actually occur.
the next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on the case of rwanda and victoire ingabere.
author. – mr president, it is very unusual that a person whom an urgent resolution of the european parliament concerns can be present, as many of them have disappeared or have been imprisoned. today, however, this is not so. mr andy hall is present and has been in parliament as my guest, meeting many colleagues and other eu actors. he was deemed guilty of criminal defamation under article 328 of the thai criminal code and crimes under article 14(1) of the computer crimes act. the charges were brought against him by natural food company limited, a thai pineapple producer, because of a report called ‘cheap has a high price’, which was published by a finnish ngo, finnwatch. mr hall had done research for the report which revealed serious violations of workers’ rights in natural food’s operations. the report’s aim was to investigate possible problems in finnish retail companies’ supply chains and these violations were found. to respect the court’s decision does not mean that we should agree with it. today the european parliament will show that we disagree with the bangkok criminal court. i have been following andy hall’s case for several years now and i will continue to express my support for him, among many other colleagues who are deeply touched by what happened to him. instead of being prosecuted and convicted, andy hall should be given an award for his work as a human rights defender. the use of criminal defamation laws, carrying penalties of imprisonment against human rights defenders, constitutes a violation of thailand’s obligations under the international covenant on civil and political rights, to which it is a state party. thailand has recently made some progress in the work against labour exploitation. it has, for example, ratified ilo convention 187 on promotional framework for occupational safety and health. still, thailand should abolish the crime of defamation and it needs to revise the computer crime act, which is very broadly worded. i am very concerned about what implications mr hall’s sentence will have on people and organisations working to improve the human rights situation in thailand. the court decision is a clear step back on freedom of expression that might lead to further silencing of human rights defenders in thailand. corporate social responsibility is the cornerstone for improving the human rights situation all over the world. transparency and responsible business conduct is today’s thinking. companies should be thankful for research and civil society that looks at their supply chains and this is exactly what the finnish retail company s group did by looking into the findings and remedying its supply chains.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the improvement of the status of workers, the protection of the environment, human rights and democracy are certainly important values for all of us. the eu must always, in all circumstances, defend those brave people who dare to put themselves on the line for these values. it is equally important that the eu acts consistently on behalf of these values in its foreign and trade policy. if we close our eyes to the plight of people for financial gain, we will have no credibility in acting and condemning individual events that cross the news threshold. the treatment of andy hall and his exposure tell us much more about thai society and the global economy than the surface that we europeans often see on our holiday trips. the european union must expect thailand and other partners to strengthen the rule of law and democracy. people must be able to express their opinions freely without fear of consequences, whether they are eu citizens, migrant workers or activists in their own country.
mr president, fortunately there are many positive aspects to this sad matter. the way the ngos work is great. i'm not speaking in a general way. i'm talking about a targeted attempt. moreover, this company, the finnish s-chain, has already corrected its practices. i think one of the purposes of our conversation is to directly influence the commission. commissioner malmström, could you please make it a little harder for the international labour organisation, for example, to take greater account of workers' rights? we must also support the ngos in this daily practical work to defend the rights of workers and to defend the rights of those who are defended very little, that is, the migrant workers. andy hall really deserves a reward, not a punishment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution because it does not take sufficiently into account the specific features of active and sustainable nordic forestry as part of the implementation of the paris agreement, in particular in the sections on land use, land use change and forests.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, thank you all for your very constructive cooperation on this important matter. i welcome the commission's attempt to address the weakness of our single customs area, namely the customs offences detected and the penalties that follow. the fact that the penalties for infringements were left to national legislators in the customs legislation has unfortunately led to the fact that the different penalties in the different eu countries have also attracted companies to customs fraud, and thus distorted the market to the detriment of companies that are doing well and legally. the fact that there is a common interpretation of what constitutes customs infringement, as well as a common system of penalties, i believe will increase the transparency of imports and exports and all sorts of efficiency, also within the european union, and will put companies of all sizes on the same page a little better. we need a level playing field also in this customs matter, and i support it particularly strongly. i like the fact that the rapporteur has gone to great lengths to find solutions that are consistent.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held tomorrow, tuesday 25 october 2016.
the next item is the report by mr richard howitt, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu strategy for iran after the nuclear deal (2015/2274(ini) (a7-0286/2016).
mr president, some 30 years ago, 30,000 political prisoners, including thousands of women, were executed in iran. some of the executed were only 15 years old, some were pregnant. the perpetrators of these crimes still have the means to do so, and they even boast of their accomplishments. such persons must be brought to justice immediately and cannot be allowed to sit idly by after the passage of time. it's important to understand that this is not just about nuclear weapons. as we increase cooperation, we must consistently demand respect for human rights. cooperation is only beneficial to all if it is based on the right principles. we must not abandon the iranian people to gain access to the country's huge market. no, not even if some other countries do things differently. we can't let money come before democracy and human rights. we must remember that the power of religious ultraconservatives is cemented in the iranian system and democratic reforms cannot be carried out without their approval. iran is not the only undemocratic and human rights-crushing state in the middle east. the eu must be fair. stability can only be built by more consistent action than at present. the west must finally put human rights and peacebuilding ahead of all power games.
in writing. i am very pleased that the laura ferrara report has taken account of the serious risks posed by criminal organisations infiltrating the social, economic, business, political and institutional structures of nation states. criminal organizations often have large sums of money at their disposal, which they can direct to financing, for example, the election campaigns of prominent politicians. if the same funders often fund the same politicians' campaigns, the recipients of the money automatically owe a debt of gratitude to their supporters. those who finance campaigns may expect favors in return from the political parties and candidates they support. the counter-services may include favourable legislative preparation, sectoral tax relief, efficient positioning schemes, special benefits, best trading venues, etc. it is therefore of the utmost importance that all political election financing be as transparent as possible. the finnish election finance law was reformed a few years ago. it has not been a vacuum, as many major election campaigns continue to be completely overshadowed. for example, only the 13 elected meps and the 7 candidates for deputy meps are submitted to the authorities for the 2014 european parliament election financing notification. in finland, this means that only 20 out of 251 candidates submit an election financing notification. at the same time, the public is completely blinded by large-scale election campaigns, which cost, according to newspaper reports, up to €100,000. as a general rule, campaign donors remain secret. the same problem is also affecting the parliamentary elections. in this context, it should be borne in mind that candidates for the european parliament and the european parliament elections are usually those who have had a long political career. many of them have been involved in local and national politics, and therefore often have influence in decision-making.
mr president, for me the most important accent on the report of madam vergiat is that it is based on the human rights-based approach to migration: it sees migrants as rights holders, and it equally emphasises our needs to respect our international obligations. the second most important – and timely – point is that development cooperation should not be conditional on cooperation on migration-related issues, and i believe that we are now witnessing a very dangerous tendency in the eu financing instruments, which more and more divert aid towards security and towards preventing migration. unfortunately we are witnessing this in many eu funding instruments at the moment, and this has to be dealt with. lastly, i would like to say that madam vergiat also made a reference to another report which is coming from the foreign affairs committee. i do not understand why we have to produce another report after this one.
mr president, responsible business conduct can no longer be ignored, that is for sure, and i believe that the discussion on sustainable supply chains is here to stay, and the eu also must act accordingly. last month we discussed the case of andy hall, a british human rights defender and defender of migrants’ rights in thailand, and we saw that companies are ready to take responsibility, and they should be grateful for researchers and civil society organisations who inform them about wrongdoings and breaches of human rights in their supply chains. we have very good examples: the uk law on modern slavery is excellent, the french initiative on due diligence on supply chains as well. i would like to ask commissioner cañete if the eu is coming out with the promised action plan on responsible business conduct that we have been awaiting for months and months.
in writing. we need to ensure that member states respect their commitments on fundamental rights. fundamental rights are inalienable and indivisible. they cannot be taken away from anyone either by a decision of the authority or by the person's own consent. the rights are also indivisible. the rights should be exercised simultaneously. the eu currently lacks the legal tools to address the arbitrary violation of fundamental rights in its member states. the report on the establishment of an eu system for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights draws attention to this weakness. we must monitor the implementation of fundamental rights in the member states. we need a mechanism whereby the eu can look at serious threats to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, or the risk of them. the european union is also committed to the principle of equal treatment for men and women, and to the principle of equal treatment for women. for example, the accessibility of urban environments, health care or education must be ensured. the prohibition of discrimination should extend to forms of discrimination such as age or disability. it is in everyone's interest to be able to ensure that member states respect the values and fundamental rights that they share.
in writing. ‒ in line with the alde united line, i voted in favour of the recommendation, as clear statistics help the development of rail transport and are an important basis for cooperation between eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation in line with the alde united line, as statistics on inland waterway freight transport shed light on the movement of goods within the eu and statistics are an important basis for action.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i thought that the alde line was realistic. it pays great attention to establishing realistic relationships, but it does allow problems to be raised. the eu is committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective dialogue with iran, including through the establishment of a comprehensive dialogue on the issue of human rights and democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it was clear and because it takes the fight against corruption in the right direction. it is important to address corruption both in the eu's cooperation with external stakeholders and within our own institutions.
in writing. ‒ i think that the alde line was balanced and that is why i voted in favour of the report. human rights issues are important and will become more important as migration increases and need to be addressed at eu level.
in writing. ‒ when the report on human rights and migration in third countries was being discussed, i finally voted with a blank. the report as a whole contained many important views on human rights issues and also on the roots of migration, but as a whole i could not support the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ it is important to address human rights violations at eu level and to hold perpetrators accountable. i think the report was straightforward and i followed the clear position of alde by defending it.
in writing. ‒ a report on the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage was voted on today. i am in favour of phasing out fossil fuels in the long term, but the report proposed phasing out the use of gas in the long term, including biogas, which is important for finland. this is the one i couldn't support. i also regard the nord stream 2 project, which was mentioned in the report, as an environmental issue, and i voted in accordance with that. my own views did not win on the substance, and for that reason i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the alde line on the report was straightforward, so i voted in favour of it. it is important to create and maintain opportunities for mobility within the eu and thus invest in high-quality and extensive infrastructure.
the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is responsible for preparing the opinion. mr president, the european union is in danger because of these many crises. the last one is the free trade crisis. now, everyone should understand that there is a certain uncertainty behind these crises. it is now that we should invest in the single market, growth and employment. as the draftsman of the imco opinion, i am very pleased that the committee on budgets has accepted many of the ideas of imco. first of all, we do not accept growth as a cut in the basics, the engines. we will not accept cuts to smes and entrepreneurship. i am also pleased that the committee on budgets has approved imco's innovative pilot projects, such as the algorithm project, the parcel delivery project and the internet accessibility project. i hope that these will be passed by the council and the commission.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on fisheries. – madam president, i can explain. i was the rapporteur on the committee on fisheries (pech) and, at the same time, i was the shadow for parliament’s budget in the committee on budgets (budg). therefore you have to give me almost two minutes. first, about the fisheries policies: the common fisheries policy is going into action, so we need a decent budget. therefore it is very important that the fisheries budget is up and running. then, about the parliamentary part of the budget: on 14 april we voted in this room, and everybody should have known that we were about to vote – also the secretary-general of parliament. but what happened? on the same day we can see in the official paper of the european union that he is disregarding the democratic procedures of this house and going his own way. that is, of course, an old german sickness – der wille zur macht – so apparently he has read too much of nietzsche in his youth. we think this is scandalous. this is not the way in which it should be done. so 14 april is not a good day for democracy; it has never been. if you check, abraham lincoln was shot on 14 april, and the guy who is building a titanic bureaucracy for his own sake should remember that on 14 april the titanic ran into an iceberg. mr welle: remember history.
mr president, firstly, i want to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work and madam vice-president for her constructive role. but i will donate my speaking time to the council. i have to say in all honesty that the member states’ attitude towards the european union’s budget is unsustainable during the times in which we are living. while the migration crisis, weak economic growth and the unpredictable security situation require concrete action, the council is acting as if the world had never changed. it wants to cut next year’s budget without giving much strategic consideration to our priorities and this simply does not make sense, especially now when money is tighter than ever before. budget negotiations should be seen as an opportunity to discuss what the eu really wants to achieve, to think about measurable goals and provide resources to achieve them. our current situation needs therefore funding and cooperation, particularly in three areas. jobs and growth cannot be achieved without research, development and innovation funding. the migration crisis is a reality, we simply have to deal with it and solve it. and thirdly defence – we have to start thinking seriously about it now, and the 25 million is just the beginning.
the question of the blue card. mr. kamall, you are a good speaker, but you give very few answers. you said there's been a weak response to russia. should the council have declared sanctions or what should the council have done instead of condemning the bombing of aleppo in the strongest terms? give me some answers, too.
mr president, the heart and soul of the european union is peace, and the key words are diplomacy and dialogue. this is what the iran nuclear deal, for example, demonstrated at its best. russia is currently in a difficult situation because there has been a paradigm shift in russia. russia does not want to get closer to europe, but europe must nevertheless get closer to russia and try to win european interests for russia too. i think we should start with crimea, it is against international law, it is a crime, and we should start with the new helsinki process. i am very pleased that the council meeting strongly condemned the barbarism of aleppo and considered that if the war in syria continues, then this cradle of christianity will soon become the tomb of human culture. we cannot accept that.
in writing. ‒ in the report voted on today, 'european semester: implementing the 2016 priorities', i opposed the adoption of the report. i supported some amendments which stressed the member states' own power to decide on economic policy and to withdraw from the euro area. however, these proposals did not receive the support of the majority, so i finally voted against this weak report as a whole.
mr president, i would like to thank the president of the court of auditors for this annual report. it is a piece of good work. the error rate this year is 3.8. those are errors, not fraud, but finding them cost a lot of time and money. to me these errors are proof that too many people have a hard time understanding the rules to begin with. so we clearly need simplification of rules. in addition, we need more transparency in the use of eu money. it is impossible to fix problems if we do not know exactly where the problems are. in shared management we should be able to count on the information provided by the member states; we hear about this every year, so clearly this is something that we need to pay special attention to. so may the force be with you in this extremely important task.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i think, no doubt, we have seen some very modest steps in belarus in the past year towards what we could call democratic development. but i emphasise: very modest. for instance, now, after the elections, we can come to the conclusions that maybe there is a chance to open new channels of discussion. for instance, we have seen that there are two opposition members elected to the legislature. we do not know if this is a genuine signal of beginning of change or not, but i think we have to invite belarus to take further steps. we have to be convinced by further steps. and notably, many colleagues have mentioned that this capital punishment, which is really a violation of human dignity, must be abolished. we must demand that. we must demand a new revision of the electoral law and process, and then perhaps we can see if there are new opportunities for our dialogue.
madam president, the honourable commissioner, and the representative of the council are now here. it was worth measuring the empty corridors of this building all evening drinking too many cups of coffee to keep me awake. now that i have an audience i will actually give a little traditional speech. the european parliament is the only institution that is directly elected by citizens, and therefore we have a crucial role in this business. it is almost needless to say that granting discharge is one of the most, if not the most, important duty of this parliament. but there are a few aspects of the discharge process where we urgently lack progress. first, the long-standing practice of parliament’s right to check the use of money and to grant discharge separately to all institutions and bodies needs to be respected. the fact that the council is stubbornly sticking to its interpretation of the procedure is a slap in tax payers’ faces, and undermines the reputation of the union. we need to find a solution to this, and i think we will. secondly, in addition to an effective discharge process, parliament has a right and duty to follow up previous years’ recommendations and their implementation; here also we need effective cooperation from all institutions and bodies. thirdly, in order to increase democratic accountability and safeguard the reputation of the union we need to strengthen the role of the parliament in the discharge process. all institutions and bodies need to acknowledge their responsibility, and if not, there have to be consequences. it is like raising your kids; they will learn the ways that you let them learn.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, 89 members from five groups have proposed a resolution calling for the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed agreement between the european union and canada (ceta). the resolution is currently scheduled for wednesday, but is only to be put to the vote. i request that this resolution be debated on tuesday and demand a roll-call vote on my request. there is no reason to avoid debate: many statements are coming from stakeholders, the expert community law professors, and even the advocate general of the eu court of justice. furthermore, after the objection by the walloon parliament, the council has supplemented ceta with a joint interpretative instrument. the legal validity of that instrument is unclear, and this further adds to the complexity of the agreement. so it is necessary to ensure that the suggested investment court system is compatible with eu law, and all these considerations and this house’s interests require that the members have the possibility to express their views before this important vote. (applause)
in april this year, mr president, in the foreword to the 2015 annual report, mario draghi, president of the european central bank, congratulated the bank on its successful mission to increase the confidence of businesses, citizens and banks in the future, in a context of economic turmoil both within the union and globally, brexit and the rise of extremism across europe. i feel, mr president, that we are living in different realities, because i see the continuing growth of european inequality and a belief in the future that is not for everyone, the continuing impoverishment of the poor and even the impoverishment of the middle class, which is extremely important for national economies, and the banks, which are considered to be reliable, are being caught time and again by greed on a shocking scale. you talk about how the european central bank is an anchor of faith for the future. is this anchor attached anywhere?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking olle ludvigsson for his work. it provides a fairly good basis for further studies in this area. most of us would agree that banks do an important and varied job serving all of us as individuals, as small businessmen, and possibly also as large businessmen. however, there are some concerns when looking at the data we see on the interest rates of banks. a bank that has a 15 percent capital return requirement may be violating the rules that we in our great wisdom are writing here. this raises the serious question of how we can ensure that the rules actually create a fairly level playing field, allowing small banks in smaller countries to survive in tough competition. so we need a fair system. we need a level playing field. i hope that in its future work the commission will be able to take this into account and ensure that the peripheral banks and the peripheral banking system also manage to survive in a game which is sometimes tough and not always very clean.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a debate on the basel rules would require a little more involvement here in parliament and a little more enthusiasm for the task. if we look at the history of the basel accords, we can say that they have reflected the illusions that politicians at different stages have had about banking. during the crisis of 2007-2008 we had a bitter experience, i.e. a large part of that crisis actually arose on the basis of the wrong rules written by the basel committee. for that reason, it is of the utmost importance that we succeed in rewriting these rules and actually implementing them in a way that makes them work. in this respect, we are a little concerned about the current situation in the basel committee, namely that the european banks are unable to defend their interests but are flying around like a flock of sparrows. this is a worrying sign and we hope that the commission will take this seriously and ensure that we have a single banking front capable of safeguarding the interests of european banks.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 22 november 2016. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by cristian dan preda, on behalf of the committee on development, on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation (2016/2139(ini)) (a8—0322/2016).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 22 november 2016.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 163).
the case is closed.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the commission's proposal for a new directive on money laundering is a good one, as is the rapporteur's draft report by mr maurel. but i would like to draw attention to two things. firstly, the trusts, the importance of which has been recognised in previous speeches, which is very good. it seems that there are still loopholes in the proposal, such as the possibility to label company directors as owners if the actual owners are not known. in addition, the concealment of assets through trusts would continue to be possible if their beneficial owners are located in, for example, panama or other non-eu tax havens. my second concern is the ownership of listed shares, which has been under-discussed in the context of anti-money laundering. many eu countries use administrative registers for the ownership of shares, where the identification of the actual owners is entirely dependent on the banks managing them. in many cases, it is also possible to use intermediaries at a distance, who may be located in other eu countries. when these ownership transactions through intermediaries are chained, the risk that the identification of the beneficial owners does not work as it should increases. the best option is a direct shareholding model where owners are registered in a central public register. we should work towards making this a pan-european model.
for the alde group. madam president, the best vice-president moscovici, the best speaker! we have before us a rather decent report which our group will support, but at the same time i cannot help but point out that if the commission and the council had listened to parliament two years ago when this subject was last discussed, we would have been much further along on this issue. i cannot help but point out that this proposal was put forward by the commission after the terrorist attacks in paris. at that stage the commission either had no idea or did not want to know that we actually have a serious money laundering problem in europe. one of the holes through which money is actually flowing is through casinos, particularly casinos in the southern parts of europe. between 60 and 80 percent of the money that rolls into the casinos we have no idea where it really comes from. but when we also know that the people who run the tables have a share in the money that goes through the casino, we realize that there is also no greater desire to control where the money comes from. for that reason, i think that the commission should take a serious look at the money laundering, at the illegal transactions that are actually taking place in our casino world. any effective action in this sense will not succeed if we do not address these issues. then i think in another respect we are a little bit off track, or in the wrong order. after finalising the report on the so-called panama papers, we may have one more reason to return to this matter.
mr president, this is one step in the long-term fight and work of the commission and parliament against bad tax practices, tax evasion and the billion-dollar tax loophole. in this respect, we can be satisfied with the proposal and the agreement reached so far in parliament. but, as we heard earlier, it is very regrettable that the council and the member states not only refuse to have a normal dialogue and debate in this context, but have long been a cornerstone in the development of good tax administration and transparency. the next step that we would need is a real automatic exchange of information from the base of the true true owner directly from the payer through banks and other financial institutions directly to the taxpayer in that country. we also need european tax identification data for this, and i know that this has also been in preparation for a long time in the commission and it would be nice to have it there also quite soon. we also need to work on reforming the accounting directive and the accounting directive so that the tax footprint and preferential treatment are reported there and so that transparency in its turn also promotes good governance on this basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the last year's annual report of the european central bank. the report strongly supports the policy of the european central bank, sees the failure of the member states to implement structural reforms as the backdrop to europe's economic problems and encourages the building of a banking and capital markets union. i think that attempts to correct the currency deficits of the euro will only make the situation worse. the basic flaw of the single currency is that it involves too many different economies. the task of the european central bank is hopeless when it tries to accelerate inflation to near the 2% target. the euro area as a whole has been growing at zero. the countries at the periphery of the wider euro area including finland have been caught in a debt cycle, internal devaluations, high unemployment and a severe austerity spree. the best option would be a controlled dismantling of the euro area, with all or at least some of the member states re-introducing their national currencies alongside the euro.
in writing. ‒ the green paper on retail financial services was balanced overall, but it included a statement that the eu market would work better if all member states had a single currency. this is the reason why i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european defence union. european countries should cooperate more closely on eu foreign and security policy, including the fight against terrorism and the development of a common defence market. these are the things i supported when the report was voted. the proposals in the report went too far in many respects. i believe that the member states should be free to choose their own defence solutions according to their own criteria and that the eu should not take steps towards a common defence union. this takes away the decision-making power of the member states and does not contribute to the overall security of finland.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european defence union. european countries should cooperate more closely on eu foreign and security policy, including the fight against terrorism and the development of a common defence market. these are the things i supported when the report was voted. the proposals in the report went too far in many respects. i believe that the member states should be free to choose their own defence solutions according to their own criteria and that the eu should not take steps towards a common defence union. this takes away the decision-making power of the member states and does not contribute to the overall security of finland.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. i also voted in favour of environmental standards, for example the directive on pollution. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. i would particularly like to stress the importance of keeping religious communities in the development community, as i see their role in this context as globally significant. among the developing countries, religious organizations are one of the largest actors and should not be excluded from this list.
in writing. ‒ i was involved in the preparation of this report on improving the efficiency of development cooperation as a shadow rapporteur for my group. i would like to see the report incorporate a broader perspective on how development can be promoted effectively. in addition to development aid and cooperation, other development policy instruments are needed to effectively eradicate poverty and promote other sustainable development goals. i voted to accept the result.
i wish to give you some information. i will not be giving a blue card to those who are on the speaking list.
the question of the blue card. i listened carefully to your speech, in which you repeatedly said that the european union should sever all relations with turkey. so you do not support this initiative, which has been very widely accepted here, to freeze the negotiations at the moment and thereby send a signal that turkey must take care of human rights developments and work better with its citizens?
in writing. mr president, in the last few years, the development of democracy in turkey has taken a very worrying turn under the leadership of president erdoğan's administration. the decisive turn for the worse was seen in the summer, when, under the cover of the coup attempt, the turkish government launched a massive purge that has resulted in tens of thousands of people being dismissed from their jobs and arrested. as important as cooperation with turkey is, the european union cannot turn a blind eye to the violations of the rule of law, the trampling of human rights and the restriction of freedom of expression that are taking place in that country. with citizens now being detained on purely arbitrary and politically motivated grounds, the administration is even planning to reintroduce the death penalty. it is clear that turkey, as an applicant country, has now become so far removed from european values that the european union cannot continue the accession negotiations as if nothing had happened. the only decision we can make is to freeze the negotiations. we must cooperate, but not at any cost. europe has its values and its principles, which we must uphold. turkey must choose the direction in which it wishes to develop as a state. turkey's accession negotiations were opened by unanimous decision of all eu member states. they also have the power to suspend negotiations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions.
in writing. i encourage the commission to look at the practice of competence-based examinations in the member states. the stage diploma is a flexible form of qualification designed especially for adults. in the case of demonstration studies, professional skills are demonstrated in working life, regardless of whether the competence has been acquired through work experience, studies or other activities. all vocational basic, vocational and specialised examinations may be taken as exhibition examinations. a person who already has sufficient skills may complete the exhibition examination or part of it without attending training. the exhibition qualification gives access to higher education and general access to vocational education. everyone should be treated as a potential student in higher education, so it is good to secure pathways in as many ways as possible. one such means is the screening of adults to verify the skills acquired in working life. in the spirit of lifelong learning, an eqf-4 qualification should also provide the capacity to update skills throughout a working career and, if necessary, to continue studies at a higher level.
for the alde group mr president, commissioner malmström, five colleagues who are still here this evening. i would like to thank the commission for the work it has done in these negotiations and i see this as a positive issue for the commission as well. i will now put on my glasses, because my eyesight is already starting to fail at this age, so that i can use this minute and a half effectively on behalf of my group. this agreement can also be a major factor in the economic growth of the european union. we have a high level of expertise in europe in environmentally friendly products and we are also doing well in this sector in global competition. i hope that this has not been forgotten, despite the fact that many industries are driven by the single product. instead of guaranteeing the entry of an individual product, we must prevent market imbalances and ensure that this agreement keeps pace with developments. here, an effective review clause is absolutely essential to ensure that the agreement does not become obsolete in just a few years. this agreement can also be a tool for achieving global objectives and is a good example of how trade and environmental friendliness are not mutually exclusive. the negotiations involve major economies and this agreement will allow us to take environmental standards forward on a global scale. this objective should not be disregarded merely for the sake of a rapid conclusion of the negotiations. i look forward to the outcome of the final round of negotiations and hope that it will be balanced and offer opportunities for environmentally friendly economic growth.
in writing. mr president, i am pleased that we have reached agreement on the directive. air quality remains a very difficult problem in many member states, and it requires solutions. it is not enough to look at the commission's list of environmental infringements to see that member states are having difficulty complying with existing legislation. this is not because our legislation is too strict, but because the lack of clean air is not taken seriously enough! air pollution causes more deaths in the eu than any other environmental problem. i hope we will continue to regulate and strive for a more ambitious level in the future. everyone has a right to clean air and we have an obligation to ensure that this right is realised.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, it seems that the majority of the political groups are coming to the conclusion that this parliament should also postpone the vote on consent for the ceta agreement until december. i think that, if this is confirmed, it is very sensible because we need to deal with it responsibly. one reason why 89 members have proposed this resolution calling for the opinion of the european court of justice on the compatibility of this agreement – and especially of the investor protection rules – with eu law, is that we need to deal with this responsibly. referring to rule 190(4), i would like to suggest, in the name of my group, that we postpone the vote on this resolution calling for the opinion of the european court of justice on the compatibility with eu law until december.
in writing. ‒ ceta has been declared legal by the legal experts of the parliament and the commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i'm not in favor of sending the contract back for review. parliament has listened to the public and replaced the investor-state dispute settlement (isds) system with an investment court system (ics). i am in favour of the rule of law and i see no problem in having any dispute settled by an independent court. what are the concerns of those who oppose an independent tribunal? why is an independent court so big a deal to them? i personally see that in a state governed by the rule of law, matters can and should be resolved in court if necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the draft report. the success of this report would have delayed the ratification of the entire agreement at eu level by almost two years. in that case, the agreement could not have been applied even in part. if the eu fails to negotiate a free trade agreement with canada, the future of trade policy looks rather bleak.
in writing. – i voted against this report. air pollution in europe causes 400 000 deaths per year and the national emissions ceilings directive is a crucial piece of legislation which is meant to tackle this problem by placing appropriate limits on certain key pollutants which cause high levels of damage to public health. the agreement on updating this directive which has come out of negotiations between the parliament, commission and council is unacceptably weak. it has significantly lowered ambition on a range of pollutants to the extent that it is now estimated that this weakened agreement will lead to an extra 10 000 lives lost every year, compared to the original proposal. intense lobbying has led to a text which crucially no longer includes a cap for methane as well as a lowering of the limit for ammonia, two pollutants which contribute significantly towards premature mortality and adverse health outcomes in the eu. for these reasons i voted against endorsing this weak first reading agreement and would have preferred the three institutions to return to the negotiating table to considerably improve upon this legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the common security and defence policy. i am in favour of european cooperation in the field of defence procurement and the creation of a common defence market. similarly, counterterrorism is more effective when it is practiced together. i do not, however, accept the development of a common security and defence policy into a defence union.
in writing. ‒ it is clear to everyone that disinformation, fake news and propaganda are harmful to both citizens and states. the post-factual era serves the interests of populism, which is based on lies and provocation, and is eroding the european foundation of values, which includes freedom and democracy. the resolution contains some good and worthy ideas. however, i do not believe that the identification of russia with isis is conducive to the necessary dialogue. the resolution also uses the term 'war' (information war, propaganda war, etc.) for russia's actions. at a time when russia is also engaged in a real war, it is not sensible to talk about war in situations where it is more a matter of influence or propaganda. the eu is currently trying to put pressure on russia to behave better. pressure from economic sanctions to declarations has not changed russia's behaviour. the pressure can still be maintained, but i would like to see strong eu support for russia's own ngos and for part of its opposition. change requires pressure from within. i voted against because, although there are many good points in the report, its shortcomings are too great for me to accept.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because i felt that the text was unbalanced. the text had mixed up two very different issues and was by no means the right approach to the problem. a document that failed on all counts and that even the amendments proposed could not have corrected.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on eu strategic communication to counter anti-eu propaganda by third parties. the report as a whole was weak and it completely unjustifiably equated the propaganda of russia and isis. the report was unbalanced and poorly prepared. for these reasons, i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection because there is insufficient scientific evidence to oppose the renewal of the authorisation. unfounded and unscientific decision-making is unreasonable from an industrial point of view. politicians do not have the knowledge to solve such a problem without scientific evidence.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. – mr president, for active and healthy ageing, it is necessary to have sustainable levels of pensions. this is not always the case in europe, and we have new threats like the economic landscape, carbon bubbles, resource efficiency and other factors. this is a crucial issue where i see that we have taken the first step to ensuring and guaranteeing adequate pensions for all europeans. in the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) we duly hope that the commission will soon be ready to take the next steps which are needed. this means taking into account the different earning patterns of women and men. if a woman’s salary is roughly 70% to 80% of a man’s, the woman’s pension euro is worth only about 60 cents because salaries are lower and working periods are shorter. if we do not compensate this in our pension calculation structures, this is going to be an unsustainable risk in the future.
mr president, we are seeing an unprecedented loss of endangered species, and species in general, all over the world. at the same time, we see wildlife trafficking expanding at a faster pace than ever. so, yes, we do need to act with much more urgency and in a stricter way than we have envisioned to date. this includes compulsory trained units on duty in customs services, including trained dogs. it means specialised training units, including in police forces. it means liability for transportation companies, including air freight companies and other middlemen in the processes. yes, it means banning imports of trophies – and, yes indeed, that actually fuels the illegal transportation of wildlife and endangered species because it makes it harder to make the difference between legal and illegal. if we do not act on these points right now, if we do not take responsibility here in europe, as i urge the commission to do, then in a couple of years’ time it could be too late.
mr president, both the eu and the united nations have finally come to realise that this is not just an environmental problem. it is now understood that poaching and the trade in wildlife parts also threaten the good governance, security and sustainable development of nations. research shows that armed groups in africa finance their activities and thus conflicts with proceeds from poaching. immediate action is needed at all levels to tackle this greed and waste which threatens biodiversity, and in particular the eu must act in a direct way, whether in environmental or trade policy or tourism.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, thank you, commissioner, thank you to my colleagues for the good cooperation and of course especially to our rapporteur, mr riquet. new digital transport services for the transport sector are being born like mushrooms in the rain, and that's a good thing. i am particularly pleased to see the exceptional activity on the part of smes and start-ups. new services and new operators will bring the ease of use and user-centricity to transport that is needed and will help to link different modes of transport into functional travel chains. the legislators, both at national level and here in brussels, are a little confused as to what is the best course of action and whether new regulation is needed to guide developments or, rather, the dismantling of existing regulation. the problem is further complicated by the fact that the new services are not only transport services, but increasingly also digital services or combinations of several different transport services, so that the old rules of the game no longer apply exclusively. our legislators must now be like the curling parents, who, as it were, pave the way and create the conditions for action, but let the industry and the companies themselves do the work. i would venture to say that i have studied this subject quite a bit myself and have come to the conclusion that the key thing now is to create the rules of the game at eu level in terms of responsibility issues, to ensure safety and consumer protection.
i would also like to thank mr riquet for this excellent report, which he has chaired. i think it is very progressive and i am pleased that both the transport committee and the commission have taken a very positive view of the new opportunities offered by the digitalisation of transport and the sharing economy. we have invested billions in the internet and high-speed connections that now enable new types of services in the transport sector, where we are often able to operate more efficiently in terms of the environment and time, and above all to deliver services that consumers are very happy with. at the same time, however, i am very concerned about what the report also highlights: many member states are still trying to prevent these new innovations from entering the market, rather than encouraging companies to develop new services and innovations. it's important that we get a change. the report rightly emphasizes that regulation must be reformed in such a way as to support these new services and innovations, and on the other hand that regulation must also be proportionate to the size of the business economy. in particular, it must be ensured that regulation does not become too burdensome for small enterprises. the challenge for us is that technology is evolving much faster than legislation is, consumer expectations are evolving much faster and therefore legislation needs to be very enabling and flexible. but it is excellent that such a report has been produced and that it has a very positive and encouraging attitude towards this new digital economy.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the development of air transport both within europe and with third countries is very important. it is good that the transport mode is being developed in a strategic, ambitious and coordinated way. there is much to be expected from the ongoing negotiations with the partner countries and i therefore fully support the request made by president cramer to keep parliament informed of the progress of the negotiations. i am a little concerned that the commission has too many balls in the air at the same time. i hope that there will be clear progress in the negotiations under way before negotiations with the new partners are opened. i also hope that we will be very honest and straightforward in dealing with any situation where negotiations at eu level threaten to collapse. in this context, member states should be able to continue and develop cooperation with third countries, including on the basis of bilateral agreements.
i would also like to add my support to the compliments that have been addressed to the ombudsman. your work is not easy and your resources are very limited. furthermore, when you do your job well, you also have to step on quite a lot of toes, and that is not always easy. secondly, i would like to say that the european union needs a law on good administration, clear regulations at different levels of government on what are rights and what are obligations. it clearly defines the rights of the official, but also the rights of the citizen to complain. commissioner timmermans, you are used to being known as a man of action. the lisbon treaty stipulates that the eu will have a law on good governance. it is the only point in this treaty of lisbon which has not yet been implemented in any way, so the commission should now take action. the preparation of this law on good administration must be put into practice.
the author. mr president, the case of ildar dadin is yet another example of how russian laws suppress peaceful civic activity. it is truly shocking that he has gotten one person for such a demonstration - which i know is still allowed in russia - a sentence of three years in a penal institution. it is entirely appropriate that the european parliament should again remind russia that legislation which punishes citizens in this way is unacceptable and does not comply with any international norms, including those of the council of europe. secondly, the case of ildar dadin highlights the extremely worrying prison and penal conditions in russia. i would hope that the russian prison authorities and, for example, the authorities of the republic of karelia in this case, would come to finland, across the border, to see what is going on in our prisons. it is true, of course, that prisons can also be the site of ever more human rights violations, where prisoners are denied access to their relatives or lawyers, for example, and where torture and other inhuman treatment are practised, as in this case. indeed, the conditions in russian prisons are such that they are a major human rights issue.
mr president, i would like to focus on two concepts, two terms central to any budgetary process. the first is the word ‘trust’. when we struggled with the first version of the efsi fund, one of the central themes was the willingness on the commission side to take money out of the parliamentary budget. that was, of course, very hard for us to accept. during that process, vice—president georgieva showed that she understood our difficulties, and she did something which is probably unique in the relationship between the commission and the parliament: she built a fund of trust. when in this budget we were able to repair some of the ills created by the first round of efsi, i think we established a trustful cooperation between the vice—president and parliament. we are going miss her very much, particularly in the next round. the second question is balance. there is an old saying: ‘no taxation without representation’. that was the golden rule when the monarchies were broken and their power was broken. now we are going to see the same issues. the more subtle the budget becomes, the bigger the question of ‘no taxation without representation’ will be before us. i am deeply worried about the prospects for future deals in this house.
the question of the blue card. it is important that europe is represented. we also had the opportunity to hear from experts how they see the situation developing overall with the internet, whether it has increased or decreased in openness. it is important to promote these self-evident european views. that is why it is important that the european delegation be there. unfortunately, experts told us that we were not moving in the right direction, but in the wrong direction.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i think it is very important to change the rules for members of the commission so that they promote transparency in decision-making. clear penalties should be imposed for concealing affiliations so that they are actually disclosed. for example, the links of former commissioner neelie kroes to offshore companies were not disclosed in the original review of links. at that time he was narrowly elected commissioner. the links subsequently discovered mean that kroes can no longer be sanctioned and the penalties for infringements are clearly insufficient. the definition of the links also needs to be clarified in order to avoid any interpretation of the obligation to notify. this is essential for the credibility of decision-making.
mr president, our subject today is one of the most important: the defence of the dignity and human rights of every human being. we have a constant discussion about human rights globally. we find each other and we find common ground when we condemn violations far away, but when the core values of the eu treaties are violated within the union, we turn our backs. racism, xenophobia and homophobia have only increased in several member states, and growing inequality is only giving them more impetus. desperation is the kind of fuel that builds prejudice against each other. let's not feed that hopelessness. it is important to show that the european union is more than just markets, money and walls. it is indeed the values we require of ourselves first and foremost.
mr president, racism and xenophobia have reared their heads in europe. these are the unpleasant breezes of a world that i thought was already behind us. it is our duty as politicians to set an example and to set a model: there must be zero tolerance for racism, xenophobia and all forms of discrimination. this principle should also apply to the way we speak in this parliament. this, of course, requires respect for humanity and no exceptions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. i am glad that the president of parliament has taken a firm line and that members of the european parliament are punished if they make racist speeches. i hope the next president will follow suit.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the agreement, as the legal interpretation of this agreement is unclear. final legal confirmation is required before this agreement can be accepted.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has proposed the repeal of the regulation on the accounting of railway undertakings, which allows member states to reimburse railway undertakings for payments which are due to them for obligations which are not owed to undertakings in other modes of transport. these obligations may include, for example, special contributions for accidents at work, pensions for railway workers who retire early from certain heavy work, or contributions to the cost of level crossings. the compensation for these obligations is divided into 15 categories, the specific scope and method of calculation of which are set out in the annexes to the regulation. the regulation was drawn up at a time when railway undertakings were responsible for both the operation of railway services and the management of railway infrastructure. at that time, the objective of the regulation was to put railway undertakings on an equal footing with undertakings operating in other modes of transport, taking into account social costs and the inclusion of external costs in prices. according to the commission, since 2007, four member states have regularly used this regulation to pay compensation: belgium, germany, italy and poland. of the 15 categories listed in the regulation, only three have actually been paid. parliament's position at first reading was adopted on 26 february 2014. at that time parliament supported the repeal of the regulation but demanded that the repeal be postponed for two years. following the adoption of its position at first reading by parliament, interinstitutional negotiations were continued between october 2015 and april 2016 with the council presidencies of luxembourg and the netherlands. in the negotiations and stakeholder consultations during the second preliminary reading, we found that a transitional period is still needed for the level crossing compensation category 4 , as some member states continue to use the regulation as a basis for level crossing compensation. member states may continue to reimburse the costs of intermodal facilities on the basis of article 8 of directive 2012/34, but may still need time to amend their national laws and administrative provisions. i therefore propose that the repeal of the regulation should be in accordance with the commission's proposal, with the exception of the provisions on the standardisation of the accounts for the four classes of the annex. for category four, these provisions shall continue to apply until 31 december 2017. this allows member states to adapt their legislation on the reimbursement of certain level crossing costs. however, i would like to stress in this context that all member states should respect the previous acts and make progress without delay in transposing directive 2012/34.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would also like to thank my colleagues in the rapporteur's and shadow rapporteurs' committees, the committee's secretariat, the commission and the council's negotiating parties for their very useful cooperation. while this fourth railway package as a whole is certainly very principled for many people politically, i see that a common compromise gives the member states sufficient room for manoeuvre, also allows the public service to function better and is also in the long term in the common interest of us all and above all in the best interests of the customers. europe has in the last 150 years had much to thank the railways. the sector has been instrumental in supporting european industrialisation and equality, and by some estimates even the spread of literacy, and has acted as a real connector between regions and countries, reducing the mental, physical and cultural distance both within and between countries. it is fair to say that rail transport is undervalued in europe today. we hope that this package will help us to move forward with a move that will bring a long-lasting and stable regulatory framework to the european railway sector, which will make it possible to develop the sector genuinely on customer terms and create a true european railway essence. the revitalisation of the sector is well suited to the current integrated green and responsible european climate project.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to welcome the rapporteur, mr fleckenstein, and i hope that the regulation will receive the support of parliament when it is voted on wednesday. the negotiations on this regulation have been very long and arduous and i am pleased that parliament and the council have finally reached agreement on this. this regulation will hopefully clarify open questions relating to transparency of port financing, governance models and, inter alia, the status and training opportunities of workers. the regulation leaves member states enough room to take account of national characteristics and it is time to take this forward so that we can focus on promoting sustainable and efficient maritime transport. we are faced with the targets for reducing co2 emissions from shipping and decisions on the use of shipping capacity. the eu is pleased to be unanimous on this, but would like to see the movement more active at international level. i therefore hope that the good and close cooperation both within parliament and between the eu institutions on these issues will continue.
mr president, the draft report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu in 2015 contains many important aspects of the problems of different groups of the population and minorities. however, it is surprising that the problems of the elderly have been dealt with in only a few lines. don't you want to see the plight of the aging? europe is ageing and the birth rate is very low. the small age groups are having to take care of the growing number of elderly people. in the member states with economic difficulties, savings have been made in basic services, including for the elderly. especially lonely elderly ones are easily neglected in many ways. all elderly citizens have the right to a dignified old age, but this is not the case. i would therefore have liked to see more attention paid to the problems of the elderly in the report, which are already being addressed today.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the universal declaration of human rights was adopted in 1948. it is alarming that in the most prosperous era in human history so far, people are questioning whether we can afford to guarantee human rights for all. there must be zero tolerance for the arbitrary violation of human rights in order to guarantee a civilized society. human rights and fundamental rights are for all people, everywhere and at all times. human rights are inalienable not even man himself can renounce his rights. in order to ensure that fundamental rights are respected in the member states of the european union in accordance with the rule of law, the prohibition of discrimination should be extended to all areas of life by adopting an equality directive. similarly, when anti-discrimination rules are applied in working life, the accessibility of urban environments, healthcare or education, among other things, must be ensured.
in writing. for tens of thousands of years, art has brought together people from all over the world and speaking different languages. now, thanks to technology, art crosses borders and languages better than ever before. the international and multinational nature of cultural activities must be further supported. we must ensure that artists and their works move seamlessly across borders - whether they be national, linguistic or technological. in the 2010s, the mobility and accessibility of art also require extensive networks, cheap and fast data and good regulation of the digital market. a more integrated cultural policy will ensure that cultural workers are fairly compensated for their work throughout europe. by strengthening the financial base, promoting new business models and supporting innovation, we will ensure that we pass on to the next generation not only debt and unemployment but also culture, education and culture. now if we ever need things that bring us together and remind us that in a world of money and threats, there's something more important: civilization and humanity.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the “clean energy for all” package.
i would like to inform you that i will not be taking any more blue cards, because we still have many speakers on the list.
madam president, this proposal will limit the overall cost of our decarbonisation challenge, which is very important. we can read this in particular in energy efficiency. it is the best example of how actions will soon be paid back. the commission also aims to eliminate artificial bottlenecks, which will facilitate investments and lead to the better functioning of the regional and european electricity markets. decarbonisation of the transport sector is strongly prescient. in the long run, electric vehicles will be in the mainstream of personal transport, so it is important to lay down the foundations of this transition today. but we will need to deliver right away too. i thank the commission for coming forward with the proposal to substitute fossil fuels with sustainable biofuels. many europeans will drive using liquid fuels for decades, but this proposal is not coherent and we will need to look at the coherence of the policies on biofuels in the future months.
i would like to congratulate the commission on this energy package, which is, in its main features, a very good and balanced package. we are committed in europe to reducing emissions, and it is important that this be done as cost-effectively as possible and also on market terms. energy efficiency is a big part of this. we know that in many member states there is a significant and very cost-effective way to increase energy efficiency. but i would like to highlight two points in particular about this package. the second concerns renewable energy and its promotion. naturally, renewable energy has had to be strongly supported in the initial phase, but now it is also necessary to gradually bring it into line with market conditions. a form of energy based on permanent subsidies to production cannot be economically sustainable. the second issue concerns the reduction of transport emissions. it is good that the commission has taken steps in this direction, but we still have a lot of scope for more ambitious cuts in transport emissions, and europe can also be a world pioneer in this.
the question of the blue card. mr president, there are many questions raised here about the fact that this motion is undemocratic, although i personally see this as a proposal that is a step towards democracy, as the rapporteur, mr richard corbett, has said. in my own parliament, the finnish parliament, we have looked at this house from the outside for a long time and wanted many things to be brought to light more clearly already at the negotiating stage, from the committees to the plenary, and i see that taking matters through the plenary to the negotiating stage adds enormously to democracy. in this plenary session all the groups are fully involved. do you value the proposal for increased democracy contained in this report? in other words, the plenary deals with matters at an earlier stage, rather than only being dealt with by committees in a smaller configuration.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to come back to the question of the genocide of the yazidis. today nadia murad said that daesh took their honour, and the european parliament, with the award, has given it back. lamiya aji bashar has said that the criminals must be brought to justice. i come back to the answer that mrs mogherini gave about 100 meps on 30 may on this issue, where we insisted that she act so that the eu recognises the treatment of yazidis as genocide. ms mogherini, you made a long list of prerequisites for doing that. but my conviction – and i believe that parliament is united on this – is that it is time for the eu to accelerate this process and to look for the possibility of calling it what we think it is: a genocide. this of course puts obligations on the eu to act on the grounds of the genocide convention. i really hope that you will look into this issue again.
mr president, the report contains much that is good and that we can support. unfortunately the section on immigrants and refugees to some extent repeats failed ideas, insists on solutions that do not work and avoids touching the core problems. the report as usual calls for more legal channels to europe for people of all skill levels, including the least qualified. i think this is irresponsible. western europe should have learned by now what happens when you import large numbers of people who do not have the skills that are needed in a post-industrial society. you get segregation, crime, religious radicalism and chaos. we cannot just manage the problem by, for example, relocating irregular migrants. we should focus more on reducing drastically the number of economic migrants who arrive and stay, by means of a more effective returns policy and external border control, tighter rules on family reunification, subsidiary protection, and so on.
mr president, this strasbourg plenary session is a good example of the european parliament's broad approach to human rights. first, we awarded a prestigious prize to the yazidis, then we have forced labour in the cotton fields of uzbekistan and human rights abuses in the eu's eastern partnership countries on the agenda. this is a good example of the european union's priority for human rights. as someone here said, they are like a heart, and fortunately this heart beats and the european union lives because of these values. i would like to make two further comments. as mr lambsdorff said, there are worrying developments in the rule of law within the eu. it's true, you know. the second is that eu member states are exporting arms to crisis areas. we need to change this.
mr president, it is very difficult to predict the future at the moment, geopolitically speaking. the only certainty is that we now need deeper integration and defence cooperation, such as joint procurement and standards, but above all we need to maximise union diplomacy and crisis management. we must avoid the false rhetoric. we have often spoken here of a european army, and i have come to understand that this is not the case at all. it's about cooperation. we must also avoid unnecessary provocation in relation to russia. i also think it is particularly important that, in the face of uncertainty about what is happening in the united states, the transatlantic relationship should emphasise cooperation with the united states based on values. it is a message of the utmost importance and importance also for the united states. mr president, the new element is that the eu's security and defence policy is no longer focused solely on external operations, but is moving closer to the union's own borders and territories. the question that we have to answer and that we are faced with in the implementation of this global strategy is how the european union will ultimately assume its responsibility for protecting the union, including by military means. this is the answer that must be found, and i agree with the high representative that if the european union is united, if it uses all the instruments that we have, we would be a truly enormous force for good change in the world.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 14 december 2016. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on– the recommendation by maria arena, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textiles, taking account of the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement (16384/1/2010 – c7—0097/2011 – 2010/0323(nle)) (a8—0332/2016), and– the report by maria arena, on behalf of the committee on international trade,containing a motion for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textiles, taking account of the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement (2016/2226(ini)) (a8—0330/2016).
for the alde group mr president, commissioner, in its 2011 report parliament stated that we will revise the textiles convention when we can see that the ilo has been granted access to monitor the country's working conditions and above all working conditions in relation to child and forced labour. it's happened. the ilo has reported on this issue on a regular basis and in its 2015 report it concluded that child labour has been virtually eliminated. i think it is essential and important that if we have demanded that the international labour organisation go and observe and have done this work freely there and report back to us, we also trust this reporting and on the other hand respect the decision we made on this matter in 2011. in other words, the developments in uzbekistan are to be welcomed. there is still work to be done on forced labour, and it is also very important to continue monitoring child labour in order to safeguard the positive trend and ensure zero tolerance in this area. but it is also good to remember that in the new democracies - and not always in these old ones - things do not happen in an instant, and i think that by renewing this agreement now we can give our own approval to the work that has been done in uzbekistan so far. the 2011 report did not call for a complete solution to the situation, but for a significant development, which i believe will be achieved when the widespread problem of child labour is eliminated or has been virtually eliminated in the last five years. human rights issues must be taken seriously, but i think that uzbekistan should also be thanked for the good work done there and i would also like to thank our rapporteur, maria arena, for her good, balanced report.
mr president, the european union summit is indeed the place for serious debate. as has been pointed out here, all too often the same issues are on the agenda from month to month, but no real solutions are found, and once the decisions are made, they have to be implemented. this is now eroding the credibility of the european union as a whole unless we start implementing the decisions already taken more effectively. i am referring specifically to the immigration crisis. the second important topic of discussion is the values of the european union in general. we must have the courage to defend the values of the european union - freedom of expression, human rights, the rule of law - both inside and outside the eu. i am referring in particular to the eu accession negotiations with turkey, which should now be suspended until turkey chooses the path it intends to take. the most urgent issue this week is, however, the situation in syria and aleppo, which is truly catastrophic. this calls for rapid joint action by the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the renewal of the textiles agreement, which is primarily intended to support the progress made by uzbekistan. in practice, the agreement has very little economic impact, but as a political signal it is an important encouragement to uzbekistan to continue working to improve human and labour rights. further work is needed to improve labour rights and regular monitoring in this area must be continued.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as recommended by alde. it is important that cooperation between the eu and norway continues in a constructive manner. it is only fair that the use of the skagerrak for fishing, which has been going on for centuries, should remain open to norway, denmark and sweden.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as recommended by alde. it is important that cooperation between the eu and norway continues in a constructive manner. it is only fair that the use of the skagerrak for fishing, which has been going on for centuries, should remain open to norway, denmark and sweden.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of juhan partz, in line with the alde line. he is a qualified person to be a member of the court of auditors and i have nothing against his appointment or the alde line.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, following the alde line, because i want to support research. i voted against amendment no 16d because it is good to include shale gas in the study even though it is not relevant in practice. in line with alde, i voted against a number of amendments whose content i do not think falls within the scope of the programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the report on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2015. i think that the report is a good one, although it is broad. i differed from my group's position, particularly on the paragraphs on the common european asylum system. i think that the decision-making on immigration should remain in the member states. coordination between member states must be continued and increased.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed the report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy, which i voted against. the report sets out the guidelines for the transformation of the eu towards a military alliance. i cannot be a party to this development. i have stated on several occasions that i am in favour of increased military cooperation in a reasonable way. this includes, inter alia, cooperation on the procurement of military equipment. i cannot, however, support the development towards a military alliance or even a military superpower.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, migrants arrive in greece and italy not because they want to stay there but because via those countries they can easily move to western and northern europe. as long as this is the case, more people will come. therefore, it is vitally important to make it clear to irregular migrants that if you come to greece or italy, that is as far as you will get. if you go elsewhere, you will be returned. this is the only way to discourage irregular migration and this is why we need the dublin system and dublin transfers. irregular arrivals in the eastern mediterranean have come down by 70% from last year’s figures, mainly thank to the closing of the balkan road and the eu-turkey statement. nevertheless, i find it deeply irresponsible that we outsource the dirty work to a country like turkey. we must have the courage and the will to protect our own external borders. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for the question. if you are referring to relocation plans, i do not believe that relocation is the solution to our problem. it is my opinion that we must drastically reduce the absolute number of people, irregular economic migrants, who are arriving in europe. and one way to discourage such movement, as i said, is to make it clear to the irregular migrants that if they come to greece or italy, that is as far as they will get.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, once, president poroshenko of ukraine said at the eastern partnership summit in riga: ‘i was born visa free’, referring to some demonstrators outside the house who were calling for visa freedom for ukrainians. and it has been very disappointing to see how long their justified wishes have had to wait for realisation. unfortunately, i must say that the most disappointing of all was that the council wanted to link the visa waiver of georgia and ukraine with this suspension clause. we are not happy about it; it gives too many possibilities for eu member states to restrict the visa waiver on grounds that may lead to human rights violations, for instance when returning illegally-entered migrants to the eu. i believe that the european parliament has rightly insisted that we need to have more of a say in how the commission will actually induce this suspension clause, so that it is not arbitrary.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we citizens of the european union are proud of the work that has been done to enable us as citizens of the union to travel, move, work and live freely. the eu's basic idea has been to maintain and further develop this area of freedom, security and justice, in which the free movement and rights of citizens are guaranteed. we have at least still held on to this, and it is always mentioned when people talk about the eu. it is therefore important to ensure that eu citizens are able to exercise their rights. i have the right to a marriage, a family, a name, an identity. my name is verifiable throughout the eu. however, not everyone has this right. i would not be a fair decision-maker if i did not demand equal rights for all.
author. – mr president, the european union and its member states must immediately define the atrocities against yazidis as genocide and the eu must bring the daesh criminals to justice, possibly applying the principle of universal jurisdiction. daesh crimes are appalling and target not only, but especially, yazidi women and girls in iraq. they are victims of torture and sexual slavery. we heard a first-hand testimony in this parliament when the sakharov prize was awarded to lamiya aji bashar and nadia murad. the un secretary-general has found out that daesh has raped women in pursuit a plan of self-perpetuation, and that women’s bodies are being used as biological weapons to alter the demography of the region. these women, wounded and sick in battle, need a full range of options for medical care to be provided to them, in accordance with international humanitarian law. our partners working on the ground need to know that we stand firmly behind our position and that international humanitarian law has to be fully respected.
